Sense (ゼンゼ, Zenze) is a first-class mage that proctors the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam.

Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: First-Class
Affiliation: Continental Magic Association
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Light brown
Eye Color: Pink
Manga Debut: Chapter 37 (partial appearance), Chapter 43 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 18 (partial appearance), Episode 20 (full appearance)
Japanese VA: Haruka Terui
English VA: Lindsay Seidel

Personality:
Sense is a solemn person who rarely speaks, especially in situations that do not work out for her. Additionally, she is a pacifist, choosing an exam format that does not pit examinees against one another. Despite this, she has a reputation of proctoring cruel and hard exams that would push mages beyond their limits and through the impossible to become first-class.
As an examiner, Sense shows curiosity towards candidates and inquires them to learn about their motivations and techniques, especially those with high potential.

Appearance:
Sense is a human mage of relatively short stature. She has very long and wavy light-brown hair that extends down to her ankles, with one strand protruding from the top of her head and another strand hiding part of her face and tied at the bottom. Her eyes are pink and droopy.
She wears a simple, sleeveless white robe under a waist-length, navy cape that has two layers of white and gray fringes and a ruffled collar. She also wears a big, white ribbon bow around her neck and black shoes.

Synopsis:
History:
Sense has been a first-class mage over a period of at least four exams, as she has proctored four exams in the past. During these exams, no candidates were able to pass.

Two years prior to the First-Class Mage Exam taken by Frieren and Fern, Sense was an observer of the second-class mage exam, which tested applicants by instructing them to force the examiner, first-class mage Burg, to take a step back while he wore his immovable cloak. During the exam, she witnessed third-class mage Übel slicing through Burg, thus killing him. Afterward, Sense confirmed Übel's disqualification for breaking the "no killing" rule but requested that Übel share how she managed to cut through Burg's immovable cloak. Übel explained her visualization technique, where she illustrated that fabric is something meant to be cut. Sense realized that Übel's ability to visualize was not normal and hovered at the level of a genius. Before leaving, Übel complimented Sense's hair and remarked that it must be difficult to take care of.

First-Class Mage Exam:
During the introduction of the First-Class Mage Exam by Genau, Sense and fellow first-class mage Falsch stand to the side and observe the candidate pool. Sense watches as Falsch identifies several promising candidates. Falsch wonders who Frieren is upon sensing her mana, and Sense replies that she doesn't know either.

First Stage:
Genau observes the first stage of the exam from a clifftop within the barrier, when Sense suddenly appears behind him. He mentions that Sense is the proctor for the second exam, and she chides him for designing a luck-based exam, forcing examinees to battle each other and causing several of them to die. They speculate about potential outcomes of the exam, with Genau predicting that Denken will successfully pass the first stage. Sense questions Denken's motive for taking the exam late in life given his past as an Imperial Mage, and she concludes that he is likely seeking the privilege.
As Frieren and Denken duel, Sense worries about the strength of the barrier, but Genau reassures her that the barrier was enacted by the Great Mage Serie and cannot simply be destroyed by sheer force. Sense remarks that someone has been analyzing the barrier since the previous night, and Genau brushes the idea off as pointless.

After Frieren defeats Denken and Laufen, she states her analysis of the barrier is complete and begins casting a spell to remove the barrier. Sense points out Frieren's act, and Genau reiterates that disabling the barrier is impossible right as it breaks. Sense identifies the mage's name as Frieren and mentions she was in possession of a Holy Emblem.

Second Stage:
After the first stage of the exam, Sense brings the examinees to the entrance of the Ruins of the King's Tomb, an uncharted dugeon. She explains their task for the second stage, which is arrive at the innermost depths of the dungeon. Due to her pacifist nature, she notes that all examinees succeeding in making it to the depths will pass. Blei questions if she intends for everyone to fail, given that numerous adventurers had met their deaths in the dungeon and none have successfully reached the bottom, but Sense responds that first-class mages should be capable of going on, even through unexplored territory.

To judge the exam, Sense reveals that she will also be joining in with the examinees to explore the dungeon, however, she will not assist in any way. She then hands every examinee a bottle containing a safety golem designed by Lernen and instructs them to break the bottle if they cannot continue with the exam for any reason, though doing so will result in an automatic failure. She asserts that the bottles will all break at dawn the next day, which is their time limit for the exam.

As the examinees discuss if they want to group up, Frieren and Fern decide to go in together. Sense decides to accompany them, figuring that they would be the safest group to reach the depths with, and Frieren cautions her to not get in their way. The three of them traverse the dungeon, with Frieren pointing out various traps and routes and Fern making a map of the dungeon. They reach a room, where Frieren easily falls for a mimic. While Fern attempts to get her out, Sense watches from afar and wonders if she chose the wrong group to follow.

After Frieren escapes the mimic with Fern's assistance, they continue exploring the dungeon, and Frieren accumulates various treasures. Fern and Sense observe as Frieren affectionately interacts with her findings, and Sense questions Fern's strange lack of passion or obsession despite being so talented at her age. Fern explains that all her training towards becoming a mage was done to repay someone dear to her, and she likely exhausted all her passion in that period. When Sense wonders why she decided to continue pursuing magic, Fern shares that Frieren's joy when collecting magical items inspired her and motivated her towards continuing her pursuit of magic. Sense smiles and affirms that accompanying them was the right choice, given they could find enjoyment exploring even a cruel dungeon. As they continue exploring the dungeon, Frieren discovers a hidden room. They enter it to find a mural of the buried king and his achievements, and Sense comments on how well it has been preserved and the value of such a discovery.

The three mages reconvene with other examinees at a room right before the depths, which Frieren's Spiegel clone is guarding. The examinees discuss strategies to defeat the Spiegel, and Sense refuses to give away any details. They struggle to detect Sense's clone, and Richter bitterly tells Sense that they wouldn't have needed to account for her clone if she wasn't present. Sense responds that first-class mages should be able to overcome adversities like this, and they can pass the exam by keeping an eye out for each other.

As the examinees match themselves up against the clones, Sense recognizes that Übel will be her clone's opponent. She reflects back to her first meeting with Übel two years prior at the second-class mage exam, where Übel killed the examiner, Burg, by overdoing her cut, despite him wearing an immovable cloak embedded with defensive magic. After the exam, Sense and Übel discussed Übel's ability to perfectly visualize cutting fabric, which Übel identified as something meant to be cut. Sense wondered how Übel was able to follow her feelings and visualize cutting through an immovable cloak despite knowing it was covered in defensive techniques, and she realized that her visualization ability was on the level of a genius. Remembering that Übel commented on her hair during that meeting, Sense figures that Übel will be her worst matchup and that she cannot visualize herself defeating her.

After Frieren and Fern manage to defeat Frieren's clone and destroy the Spiegel, Sense welcomes the remaining examinees into the depths, a giant treasure room, and congratulates them on successfully passing the second stage of the exam.

Final Stage:
Serie arrives at the exam hall in Äußerst to personally conduct the third and final stage of the exam, and Sense uses her hair to remove Serie's cloak. When Serie questions if Sense understands why she chose to come in person, Sense remains silent, which Serie recognizes as her typical response when things don't work out for her. The other first-class mages involved in the exam gather in the room, and Serie explains that the high number of examinees that passed the second stage of the exam was unacceptable, and numerous unqualified mages had made it to the final stage. As a result, she decides that the third exam, usually conducted by Lernen, will be replaced. Instead, she will personally evaluate the examinees, as Lernen's typical exam would result in unnecessary deaths. She explains to Sense that, like her, she would also prefer to avoid such meaningless deaths and tells her not to apologize for the circumstances, since Frieren is the one at fault.
Sense is present when Serie talks about Frieren's mana concealment capabilities, and she places Serie's cloak back on her shoulders as the elf leaves the room to conduct the third stage.

The Golden Land Arc:
Sense is present when Denken receives Mistilziela and the hundred years of training necessary to learn it from Serie as his privilege for becoming a first-class mage. Sense mentions that granting Denken the spell will result in Serie losing her defense against curses, however Serie reassures her that she has other ways to counteract curses and she can just relearn the spell, given that a century is nothing to her as an elf.

Foundation Festival Arc:
A tip-off is received from first-class mage Lineal by Serie regarding a potential assassination attempt on her during the National Foundation Festival at Eiseberg, the imperial capital, which she received an invitation to attend as the founder of the Continental Magic Association. Sense is chosen alongside fellow first-class mages Falsch, Fern, Übel, and Land to gather intel and act as bodyguards for Serie. To recruit Fern, Sense captures Frieren when her party enters Eiseberg, where she briefs them on the mission. Frieren mentions that a powerful warrior could reasonably defeat Serie in close quarters despite her power, and Sense and Falsch reveal that they are to be Serie's personal guards due to their specialization in close quarters combat. However, Frieren notes that some warriors may be able to rival them, and Sense asks if she is referring to a Shadow Warrior.
(This section is currently in active development and has no main content yet.)

Relationships:
(This section is currently in active development and has no main content yet.)

Serie:
(This section is currently in active development and has no main content yet.)

Genau:
(This section is currently in active development and has no main content yet.)

Übel:
Sense first met Übel when the latter was taking the second-class mage selection exam two years prior to the First-Class Mage Exam. Sense witnessed Übel slashing first-class proctor Burg in half through his immovable cloak, which was imbued with layers of defensive magic and should have been impenetrable. This caused Übel's disqualification from the exam, and Sense later questioned Übel in her office about how she was able to cut through Burg's defense. Übel recalled a memory of watching her sister sew, and she enjoyed the pleasant sound the fabric made when it was cut with scissors. With this, Sense considered Übel's visualization and intuition of her cutting spell as a feat in the realm of a genius.
During the First-Class Mage Exam, Übel successfully makes it to the second stage. The exam is located at the Ruins of the King's Tomb and has Sense as a proctor. As the Spiegel creates clones of the intruders, Sense senses when Übel defeats Sense's clone. After her clone's defeat, Sense recalls the two mages' first encounter and how she was not capable of visualizing herself beating Übel, as Übel is simply her worst matchup.
During Serie's visit to the Foundation Festival at Eiseberg, Übel is sent on a mission with Land to gather intel and act as bodyguards for Serie. Sense is also present on this mission, and the two work in tandem with Falsch, Land, and Frieren's Party.

Abilities:
As a first-class mage, Sense is recognized as a powerful mage. During the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, her Spiegel clone was considered to be the greatest threat to the examinees aside from Frieren's clone.
Superhuman imagination: Due to the nature of Sense's signature magic requiring her to manipulate each individual strand of hair, Sense has a precise visualization ability and a imagination that is considered "superhuman" by Edel.
Mana concealment: Sense is well-versed enough in concealing her mana that her Spiegel clone in the Ruins of the King's Tomb cannot be detected by powerful mages like Methode and Frieren. She can even supress her mana to the point where the mana-sensitive Stille lands on her.
Hand-to-hand combat: Sense states that both she and Falsch excel in hand-to-hand combat due to the nature of their magic, and they are on the level of skilled Warriors.

Spells:
Spell to freely manipulate her hair: Sense's hair has multiple layers of magic infused into it, which gives her the ability to manipulate the individual strands. The magic-infused strands are powerful enough to cut through stone and overwhelm barriers created using defensive magic, and the strands can be used as weapons to impale multiple opponents at once. Sense can also use her hair to accelerate movement or hold herself in place. Additionally, her hair is considered as part of her entire body, which limits the effectiveness of restrictive magic.
Spell to sleep soundly: Sense requests for a spell that helps her sleep from Serie after passing the First-Class Mage Exam. The spell allows Sense to sleep soundly even after killing someone.

Trivia:
"Sense" is German for "scythe."
Sense finds her hair care to be hellish, to the extent that she doesn't even want to think about it. This volume extra is included in Episode 26 of the anime.
Frieren remarks that Sense's hair has the stench of blood on it, but Sense refutes this and says it has a sweet scent.
Sense ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 20th in the first popularity contest. 15th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Sense ranked 11th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).