Graf Granat (グラナト伯爵, Guranato Hakushaku) is the ruler of Graf Granat's Domain, a fortified city in the Northern Lands constantly at war with Aura the Guillotine.

Aliases: Pops (by Stark)
Gender: Male
Species: Human
Relatives: Unnamed son (deceased)
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Brown
Eye Color: Blue
Manga Debut: Chapter 14
Anime Debut: Episode 7
Japanese VA: Shunsuke Sakuya
English VA: John Burgmeier

Personality:
The Graf initially seems abrasive and harsh. He speaks bluntly, even with the messengers Aura has sent to negotiate for peace. When Frieren moves to attack Lügner, he immediately has her thrown into the dungeons and sentences her to three years in jail. He cared deeply about his son and still keeps his room clean to this day despite his son dying ten years ago. When the opportunity arises, he immediately moves to take revenge for his son, and he is visibly angry when Lügner insults his son's memory. However, beneath the harsh exterior, the Graf is empathetic and does his best to protect his people. He lets his guard down when Lügner lies about a deceased father slain in the conflicts between Aura's army and Graf Granat's Domain and leaves to think about Lügner's words. Once Aura's executioners have shown their true colors, he refuses to give up the secret to the barrier surrounding the village even at the cost of being tortured. He sympathizes with Stark's fear, as his son showed the same fear before heading out to battle, and lies to Stark that it's a crime to speak casually to him in the town in order to get Stark to flee. He instructs Stark to take the Granat crest around his neck and leave him behind to save both Stark and the people of his Domain.
Graf Granat is also intelligent and sharp-witted. When Draht murders sentinels standing guard outside Frieren's cell, despite the signs pointing to Frieren murdering the guard and escaping, he judges that Frieren, who let herself be arrested without a fight, would understand the seriousness of murdering a guard. He is able to put this fact together with Lügner's missing executioner, Draht, and correctly reads that Aura's executioners do not have the intention of genuinely negotiating for peace.
The Graf is rather informal with his subjects, as he does not ask for them to speak formally to him. He is humble and readily expresses his gratitude to Frieren's Party and participates in rebuilding the town after the havoc wreaked by the demons. Though he takes the lead in assessing the damage and providing the proper rites to Aura's undead army after her defeat, when he sees the body of his son, he drops the façade of a leader and tells Frieren, as a father, that he has never been as thankful to anyone in his life.

Appearance:
Graf Granat is a middle-aged man with brown hair parted to one side. He wears a white shirt with the top three buttons popped open as well as black pants with matching boots. He also wears a dark blue coat with gold epaulettes over his shoulders.

Abilities:
Graf Granat, as the leader of his domain, demonstrates logical decision making and quick judgement.
Sword Proficiency: The Graf demonstrates proficiency in sword fighting. He wields his son's sword against Lügner and is able to fend off Lügner's blood attacks until Lügner uses the malleable properties of his blood to strike him with a quick stab from behind.

Trivia:
"Granat" is German for "garnet." Accordingly, the Granat family crest is inlaid with a red stone that may be garnet.
"Graf" is German for "Count," a historical title of nobility.
Graf Granat ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 48th in the first popularity contest. 49th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Graf Granat ranked 39th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).