Draht (ドラート, Dorāto) was a demon who served Aura the Guillotine. He infiltrated Graf Granat's Domain along with Lügner and Linie under the guise of serving as an envoy of peace from Aura.

Gender: Male
Species: Demon
Class: Mage
Status: Deceased
Hair Color: Dull green
Eye Color: Purple
Manga Debut: Chapter 14 (partial appearance), Chapter 15 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 7
Japanese VA: Koki Osuzu
English VA: Kieran Flitton

Personality:
Draht is extremely confident in his magic, going as far as to challenge Frieren on his own. He is reckless and inexperienced, choosing to target Frieren immediately instead of contributing to Lügner's deception. His sensory abilities are not as strong as Linie nor Lügner's, as he was unable to perceive the threat Frieren posed.

Appearance:
Draht is a young demon with dull green hair, purple eyes, and horns that are short and curve outwards. He wears a white button down shirt and dress pants with black tuxedo suspenders. His shirt has ruffles down the center and a collar tied with a striped bow at his throat. His shirt's sleeves are loose and taper off into a long cuff.

Synopsis:
Aura the Guillotine Arc:
In Graf Granat's Domain, Linie and Draht, operating as peace envoys under Lügner, are sent to Graf Granat's heavily fortified city that is protected by a magical barrier cast by the Great Mage Flamme, keeping demons and monsters out of town. The barrier has made the city impenetrable in its ongoing conflict with a Sage of Destruction, Aura the Guillotine. The demons' mission is to negotiate or coerce Graf Granat into lowering the defensive barrier. However, Graf Granat reveals that he has no intentions of holding negotiations with the demons and he and his guards raise their swords against Lügner. In response, Draht readies himself for a fight, but Lügner intervenes, defusing the situation by falsely claiming his nonexistent father's death in response to the Graf grieving his own son.

Later, when Graf Granat leaves to think over Lügner's words, Draht goes to kill Frieren, who has been locked up after attempting to attack the demons when she first entered the town. He kills a guard with his magical wire and enters Frieren's cell, telling her that he is there to kill her. Although Frieren warns Draht that she is stronger than Aura, he responds that he does not believe her and summons a wire around Frieren's neck with the intent to decapitate her. However, Frieren coats her neck in mana, which prevents her own decapitation.

Despite this, Draht still acts self-assured of his victory and declares that he can cut through both her mana and neck. Frieren calls him out for his naivety before swiftly cutting his arm off with a blast of concentrated mana casted without her staff. Draht tries to attack her with his other arm, but Frieren cuts it off as well. In his last moments, he attempts to beg for his life, but Frieren blasts his neck with mana and kills him mid-sentence.
Later, Linie notes to Lügner that she can no longer detect Draht. The Graf confronts them after finding the guard outside Frieren's cell dead and expresses that Frieren knew not to commit such a crime. He points out that Draht is missing and prepares to confront the demons. Lügner belittles Draht for acting on his own and ruining their mission, and he subsequently attacks the Graf and his guards with his magic.

Abilities:
Spell that creates a sharp wire (魔力の糸, Maryoku no ito): Draht is able to summon wires made of mana which he can use to swiftly decapitate his enemies. The wires are summoned from his fingertips, and he can summon multiple wires at once. Draht claims that his wires are amongst the strongest of demonkind's spells.

Trivia:
Draht is German for "wire."
Draht ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 92nd in the first popularity contest. 69th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Draht ranked 86th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).