Frieren (フリーレン, Furīren) is the main protagonist of Frieren: Beyond Journey's End. She was the Mage of the Hero Party and traveled alongside Himmel the Hero, Eisen the Warrior, and Heiter the Priest in a ten-year journey to defeat the Demon King. After Himmel's death, Frieren began journeying with Fern and Stark to visit Aureole and speak with Himmel once again.

Aliases: Frieren the Slayer (葬送のフリーレン), Old Hag (by Stark), Grandma (by Stark), The Last Great Mage (by Genau), The Legendary Frieren (by Lernen).
Gender: Female
Age: 1000+
Species: Elf
Class: Mage
Rank: Back-alley Mage, Great Mage (大魔法使い)
Affiliation: Hero Party (formerly), Frieren's Party
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Silver
Eye Color: Green
Manga Debut: Chapter 1
Anime Debut: Episode 1
Japanese VA: Atsumi Tanezaki
English VA: Mallorie Rodak

Personality:
Frieren has an easy-going personality; however, her aloof attitude makes her a mystery to her peers, as humans and elves tend to see things differently. As an elf who has lived for at least a millennium, she has a poor sense of time that manifests in a bad habit of being unable to get up in the morning, along with a deeper inability to comprehend how time passes for humans. This is, in part, a reason for Frieren's aloof attitude, since she sees large lengths of time as too brief for her to form meaningful connections. For instance, she thought of a ten-year journey with her comrades as short and believed she knew nothing about Himmel the Hero, even up until his passing. However, following Himmel's funeral, she made the decision to get to know humans better.

Although she is generally stoic, carefree, and often lacks tact, Frieren also has things she is emotionally sensitive to. She was embarrassed when others discovered a weakness of hers that she has yet to overcome and is considered a common error for apprentice mages. She is sensitive to people calling her old and holds a grudge against Stark for doing so multiple times. Additionally, she considers herself to be an "ordinary girl" if she excludes her magic prowess. When she is upset, she is capable of throwing a tantrum that can result in her crying for upwards of three days, scaring the other members of the Hero Party. In addition, Frieren can experience an extreme temper around once every decade, which lasts only up to 10 minutes. It is also implied that she is somewhat insecure about her body, as she occasionally shows hints of jealousy towards Fern's figure.

Frieren also has a playful side, which expresses itself in her taking gambles. She is willing to take the one percent chance to discover grimoires in treasure chests even with the ninety-nine percent probability for the chest to be a mimic instead. However, she is also willing to make extreme gambles—including risking her life—if it means getting an edge over her enemies.

Appearance:
Frieren is a petite, female elf with green eyes, thick eyebrows, and long, silver hair parted in the middle and tied into two high pigtails. Like all elves, she has large, pointed ears.

Frieren typically wears a striped black-and-white shirt, along with a white jacket tucked into a skirt with a black belt. The sleeves of her jacket end with large, gold cuffs. Both her jacket and skirt have gold trims along the edges. Over her jacket, she wears a short cape that matches the white and gold theme of her jacket and skirt, and the cape includes decorative, gold accents with red jewels on each shoulder and a high collar that is fastened with a red jewel. She also wears black tights, brown boots, and a pair of gold earrings with red, teardrop-shaped jewels hanging from each earring.

Staff: When casting spells as a mage, Frieren utilizes a red staff with a gold, crescent-shaped tip that holds a red jewel in its center. Her staff has gold accents and a red ribbon tied at the tip.

Winter Attire: In the colder seasons, Frieren wears a high-collared and long-sleeved white dress with gold accents and buttons down the chest instead of her usual jacket, skirt, and cape. Additionally, she layers a beige coat with a flap collar and buttons over her dress and dons a blue scarf tied on the side.

Other Attire: When she was training under Flamme a thousand years prior, Frieren let her hair down to her waist and wore simple, white dresses and brown sandals. During Frieren's solitary lifestyle after Flamme's death, she tied her hair into her typical pigtails and wore a white dress with a black belt and beige cape.

Suitcase: During her travels, Frieren carries a brown suitcase with metal edges and metal caps on the corners to hold her personal belongings. It appears to be capable of storing provisions for the entire party. She also keeps books, grimoires, and various items in the suitcase, such as a magic history book, writings attributed to Flamme (both fake and real), a Holy Scripture, Sein's notes about herbs, Eisen's hamburger steak recipe, a magic potion that only dissolves clothes, magical items and ingredients, and the mirrored-lotus flower motif ring that Himmel gave her.

Abilities:
As the best apprentice of the Great Mage Flamme and a member of the Hero Party, Frieren is a Great Mage of legendary achievements. She was said to be the person that killed the most demons in history, thus granting her the moniker "Frieren the Slayer".

Immense mana output: Frieren's unrestrained mana output is incredibly high. She is shown to have considerably more mana than even Aura, a five-hundred year-old demon and one of the Seven Sages of Destruction. Frieren's overall mana output is noted to be comparable to Serie's restrained output.

Mana concealment: Trained by her mentor, Flamme, Frieren has mastered the art of concealing her mana, and she uses it as a deception strategy against demons. Her skill in concealment is exceptional, and she has practiced limiting her mana for so long that even experienced mages, such as Aura and Falsch, cannot detect instability in her mana. Only a few mages have seen through her restriction, the most notable being the Demon King, who saw through her in an instant. She can even suppress her mana enough to avoid detection by a Stille, but only while staying still.

Restraint and hypnosis magic resistance: Frieren has been shown to be resistant to most conventional binding and hypnosis spells. Methode remarked that her mental defences were attributed to an "old technique" that could possibly be bypassed only by specialists.

Analytical ability: Frieren is highly adept at analyzing magics and countering them. This applies even to magic used by the Seven Sages of Destruction which are said to defy all intelligence and reason. She has analyzed and countered the magic used by two of the Sages of Destruction: Aura the Guillotine and Macht of the Golden Land. Along with the Hero Party, she was also able to break through the impenetrable barrier of Böse the Immortal.

Offense Spells:
Offensive magic: Zoltraak: A simple spell that shoots either a large blast or multiple smaller blasts of concentrated mana. Frieren contributed to the research of this magic, modifying it from Qual's Human Killing Magic to Demon Killing Magic. Due to the novelty of the spell, Frieren is unable to react to it immediately and instinctively and thus has a slightly delayed reaction when defending against it.

Destructive Lightning: Judradjim: Frieren casts multiple bolts of lightning from her staff directed towards the target. She is first shown using this during the battle against her Spiegel clone.

Hellfire Summoning: Vollzanbel: Frieren creates a large blast of fire in front of herself, enveloping the battlefield and melting certain materials. When a falling column was about to hit them, Frieren and her clone used it at the same time and vaporized all the rock instantly.

Spell that creates a black hole: A spell used by Frieren's clone that creates a black hole that attracts surrounding objects in, ultimately atomizing them.

Unnamed spatial shattering spell: A colorful spell that appears to cause fragments of space around the caster to shatter.

"The Height of Magic": An offensive attack that is considered "the Height of Magic" by Fern. It is used by Frieren's clone as a last resort. Mana cannot be sensed when the attack is used, and targets of the attack are unable to recognize it as a spell. It seems to create a telekinetic effect that repels the target. The attack is so strong that it pins Fern against a wall and destroys her staff on use, however it also leaves the caster's guard completely down. Frieren states that it has been around 80 years since she was last forced to use it, implying that she had to use it during the Hero Party's battle with the Demon King.

Mana Strike: After being provoked by Solitär into believing that she killed Fern and Stark, a silent but angered Frieren was easily able to cast Solitär's mana strike against her and blast her away, though she is still not yet adept at using it compared to her.

Defense Spells:
Defensive magic: Like most modern mages, Frieren is capable of casting defensive magic in the form of a hexagonal protective barriers that can defend specific locations or encircle the caster. This defense spell is mainly used against offensive magic like Zoltraak.

Unnamed protective spell: A protective spell that Frieren developed after learning how to dispel Macht's Diagoldze, a curse, upon completing her two-month analysis on it. The spell nullifies Diagoldze and makes it ineffective.

Support Spells:
Sealing magic: Frieren used a sealing spell to seal the powerful demon Qual, turning him into stone. The spell is strong enough for the seal to remain intact for eighty years before becoming unstable.

Spell to make things float ｢物 (もの) を浮 (う) かす魔 (ま) 法 (ほう) Mono o ukasu mahō?｣: A telekinetic spell that causes the target to float in the air. This spell was mostly used by Frieren in day-to-day tasks and quests, such as clearing debris from a beach.

Golem magic: A type of magic that Frieren uses to manipulate stones into moveable puppet golems. She can create a person-sized golem out of disjointed stones, which she uses to entertain the Hero Party. Additionally, she can create a gigantic version of the puppet golem that she uses in combat against her clone in the Ruins of the King's Tomb. The golem can be puppeteered to move according to the caster's will and can cast duplicates of other spells the caster is using.

Dispelling magic: Frieren is capable of analyzing an opponent's spell and cancel out the effects of the spell. Her staff glows golden while casting the dispelling magic. It is first seen in use against Aura's undead army, where Frieren frees corpses from Aura's Auserlese.

Spell that identifies poison: Frieren can determine what type of poison or venom an individual has been afflicted with based on a recognizable reaction. However, as poison analysis is generally the role of priests and thus not her forte, in the case of Stark, who got bitten by a snake, she is unable to recognize the reaction.

Magic of the Goddess: Because Frieren does not have a "priest's talent" and is uninterested in the Goddess's magic, she is unable to cast advanced Magic of the Goddess spells. However, she is capable of casting some of the more basic spells with a Holy Scripture, such as simple diagnosis spells.

Spell to identify illnesses: Frieren can diagnose simple illnesses with a scripture, such as a common cold.

Unnamed restraint spell: A spell that takes the shape of a golden rope that can be used to restrain opponents. It was used to tie Denken and Laufen to a tree during the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam.

Unnamed memory transference magic: An advanced mental magic spell that transfers memories from the user to a target, or from a target to the user. Frieren uses this spell to receive Denken's memories.

Folk Magic:
Spell to produce a field of flowers: Frieren was taught her mentor's favorite magic, magic to produce a beautiful field of flowers, which holds sentimental value to her. Frieren is able to choose what flowers grow as long as she has seen the flower before. As per Flamme's last wishes, she grows a field of flowers around her master's grave with the spell and avoids using the spell due to it bringing up memories of her.

Spell to pull someone out of a bottomless swamp: Retrieves an individual that is sinking/has sunk into a bottomless swamp.

Spell that captures a bird: A form of folk magic originally developed by hunters. The spell traps any bird or birdlike creature with magic. When used, it produces a glow. It has a range of 50 centimeters.

Spell that shuts the door of a treasure vault at the risk of your life: A binding spell that is considered top-rated in folk magic, which Frieren's Spiegel clone uses to seal the entrance of the Spiegel's main body and a treasure vault. The seal only breaks upon the caster's death.

Weaknesses:
Although Frieren possesses an immense quantity of mana, she does not consider her mana to be the sole indicator of her strength and considers other factors, such as talent, to be capable of determining the outcome of a battle. Throughout her lifetime, she has lost eleven times to mages who had less mana than her. Four of the mages were demons, with Qual and Macht among them, one was an elf like her, and the remaining six were humans.

Mana detection interruption: Frieren's mana detection is interrupted the moment she casts a spell, which is a common error among apprentice mages. This leaves her open to mages that are particularly good at mana concealment and can attack her while she is occupied with casting spells. However, this is often negligible due to her other talents and is not a vulnerability that can be easily exploited by any mage.

Trivia:
"Frieren" means "being cold" or "to be freezing" in German.
Frieren states that her favorite winter flower may be the icicle cherry blossom.
Frieren hates onions. In Chapter 121, she receives an artifact that gives one nightmares, which she tests at the end of the chapter. The cover illustration of the chapter is implied to be said nightmare, as it depicts Frieren surrounded by massive onions.
Frieren's hair is occasionally braided by Fern. There are two types of braids that Fern does, dependent on whether Fern is in a good mood or angry, though the different braids are nearly indistinguishable in appearance. Another hairstyle that Frieren sporadically sports is ringlet curls, which is the aftermath of her blowing up a Mimic from the inside to rescue herself.
Frieren made a cameo in Season 1 Episode 9 of Komi Can't Communicate as an in-game avatar used by Komi. Frieren: Beyond Journey's End and Komi Can't Communicate are both serialized in Weekly Shonen Sunday, which may have inspired this cameo.
Frieren ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 2nd in the first popularity contest with 11,820,565 points. 5th in the second popularity contest with 816,279 votes, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Frieren ranked 1st when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).