Übel (ユーベル, Yūberu) is a first-class Mage and an infamous troublemaker that participated in the same First-Class Mage Exam as Frieren and Fern. Prior to the exam, she was a third-class mage.

Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Third-Class (former), First-Class (Chapter 60)
Affiliation: 4th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Relatives: Unnamed older sister
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Dark Green
Eye Color: Purple
Manga Debut: Chapter 37
Anime Debut: Episode 18
Japanese VA: Ikumi Hasegawa
English VA: Morgan Berry

Personality:
Übel has a calm and sly demeanor, and she is notorious for being a troublemaker. She enjoys the act of fighting to the death and does not hesitate to kill others, feeling no guilt or remorse afterwards. Additionally, she is quite talkative in battle to the point where she expresses she'd likely die if she had to be quiet.
Despite her reputation, Übel actively makes an effort to sympathize with others and learn about them, going as far as following a target around or holding long conversations in tense situations. This characteristic is derived from her belief that specialized magic is connected to a Mage's personality and experiences, and she is capable of copying spells from those she empathizes with. For instance, she shared the sentiment of delaying a kill with Wirbel after learning about his background in war, leading to her ability to use his Sorganeil spell. She also showed hesitation towards killing him as a result of this shared empathy.
Additionally, Übel approaches stressful situations with a level head and is a competent strategist and quick thinker. She places trust in the individuals she works with and is willing to open up to others, even when she knows they may become her enemies in the future. Her observations of her teammates also allow her to accurately utilize their abilities when needed and be considerate of them.

Appearance:
Übel is a young human mage of similar height to Fern. She has dark green hair that is sectioned into three groups of bangs and tied into a thick side ponytail. Her eyes are purple with a noticeably droopy shape and abundant eyelashes.
Übel's main attire consists of a tight-fitting black top that frames her chest and is held up by four straps—three on her front and one on her back—that attach to a ring on a choker. She wears a thick belt that is clasped at the front and has two loops attached on each side. The belt separates her top from a black, thigh-length pleated skirt. For footwear, she wears black boots that reach just below her knees. Her top, skirt, and boots are all embellished with white trims.
Outside of her typical attire, Übel also dons a number of accessories. She wears a black glove on her right arm that end between her wrist and elbow, two black bands on her upper left arm, a silver band on her upper right arm, and a black band on each thigh and shin. Her mage staff has the appearance of a black spear with two curved blades adjacent to the tip, a pointed end shaped like a lightning bolt, and a black ribbon tied near the tip.

When Übel is dispatched on a mission as a first-class mage and visits Land's hometown, she wears an off-the-shoulder and cropped black coat with large sleeves over her usual attire.
During Übel and Land's infiltration of a gathering for nobles during the Foundation Festival in the Empire, Übel styles her hair half-up with a flower. She wears a strapless black dress with a floral and sheer lace turtleneck that extends into sleeves on her arms, a flower tied around her waist, and black heels. The hem of her dress includes a slit on the side that reveals a frilly layer underneath.

Abilities:
As noted by Sense, Übel is a genius mage that possesses visualization capabilities detached from intelligence and common sense that allows her spells to perform feats normally considered impossible by rational beings. Übel is a mage that uses and performs magic by feel, which allows her to use spells without actually needing to understand their exact mechanics.
Spell copying: Übel has a unique ability that enables her to copy the magic of others. She does not require a complete understanding of how the magic works, but rather, she just needs to understand the target's feelings and nature.
Keen intellect: Übel is a perceptive fighter and capable strategizer. During the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, she was able to distract Wirbel by throwing a cage with a Stille into the air and nearly took out his eyes with a surprise attack. During the second stage of the exam, she recognized Land was a clone and correctly guessed that he would intrude into the fight with her doppelgänger to save her.
Hand-to-hand combat: Übel is proficient in close-quarters combat. Notably, she shows familiarity in using her staff as a spear or polearm weapon. During her fight against Wirbel and her Spiegel clone, Übel utilizes her staff's sharp blade to perform slash and stab attacks, and she parries and blocks her clone's attacks with her staff's shaft.

Spells:
Spell that slashes almost anything: Reelseiden: Übel is proficient at cleaving magic, which is powerful enough to easily cut through structures like trees and buildings. It is classified as a simple magic, but its trajectory is impossible to follow. At the time of the First-Class Mage Exam, the spell had a range of roughly five meters. However, around two years after the exam, Übel appears to have significantly increased the range of her spell. As long as Übel can visualize herself cutting through something, her spell will be able to cut through, but if she cannot visualize it, then she cannot.
Spell of Binding: Sorganeil: After empathizing with Wirbel during the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, Übel becomes able to use Wirbel's signature binding spell.
Spell to find her sister: Übel requests a spell to find her sister from Serie after passing the First-Class Mage Exam.

Trivia:
As a German word, "Übel" refers to an event that is turning out "nasty" or "bad." In some contexts, "Übel" can be used as an adjective that describes "evil" intent or feeling sick.
Übel's past failed exam is referred to as a Third-Class Mage Exam in the official English localization by Viz Media. However, both the original Japanese text and the anime describe it as a Second-Class Mage Exam.
Übel ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 13th in the first popularity contest. 4th in the second popularity contest with 847,205 votes, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Übel ranked 6th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).