Falsch (ファルシュ, Farushu) is a first-class mage. He gauges the candidates with Sense for the First-Class Mage Exam on the sidelines before the first stage begins and is the one to announce the format of the third stage of the exam.

Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: First-Class
Affiliation: Continental Magic Association
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Black
Eye Color: Gray
Manga Debut: Chapter 37 (partial appearance), Chapter 57 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 18
Japanese VA: Kento Shiraishi
English VA: Dio Garner

Personality:
Falsch is an observant and perceptive first-class mage, demonstrated by his keen analysis of the exam candidates and their backgrounds. He is confident in his abilities and assessments, possessing a deep understanding of mana manipulation, even though he is not always correct, as shown when he fails to notice Frieren's mana suppression.
Falsch remains composed even in the face of setbacks, such as after the capture of Übel and Land by the Magic Special Forces. He prefers to wait and observe rather than rush into action, and serves as the voice of reason when Sense proposes reckless endeavors. His maturity is further evident in his exasperation at the hostilities between Lineal and Sense. He is also skilled domestically and rises early to cook and make sure his fellow first-class mage Sense is appropriately prepared for the day.

Appearance:
Falsch is a human mage of tall stature. He has short, slicked back dark hair, with two long strands flowing loosely over his forehead. He wears round glasses, and like the other first-class mages his attire features the color dark blue prominently. Falsch wears a predominantly dark blue robe, with gray lining and an upturned collar, paired with a short cape that drapes over his shoulders.

Synopsis:
At some point prior to Übel's attempt at the Second-Class Mage Exam, Falsch passes the First-Class Mage Exam and becomes a first-class mage. He becomes one of Serie's apprentices in Äußerst.
Falsch is present along with fellow first-class mage Sense during the second stage of the Second-Class Mage Exam proctored by Burg. He reads a book throughout the second stage, and appears mildly surprised when Übel manages to kill Burg.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (First Stage):
Before the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam begins, Falsch and Sense stand to the side in the exam hall and observe the pool of candidates. Falsch remarks that the quality of the candidates this year appears to be pretty good. In particular, he points out Wirbel, Captain of the Northern Magic Corps, Denken, the imperial mage, and Fern, the youngest mage to pass the third-class exam with the highest score. Falsch then pushes up his glasses and remarks that they have a troublemaker in their midst as well—Übel. Falsch continues to assess which candidates are promising, and his attention is drawn by Frieren, who he notes has the mana of an old, experienced mage. He asks Sense who that mage is but Sense also has no idea, and they are distracted by Genau announcing the start of the first stage of the exam.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Second Stage):
While Sense conducts the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, Falsch is seen having tea with Genau in a library of the Continental Magic Association. After Genau explains why the Ruins of the King's Tomb has thus far been impregnable, Falsch questions why Sense would choose the dungeon as the location of the second stage of the exam.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Final Stage):
Before the third stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, Serie arrives and gathers all the first-class mages in her room in the Continental Magic Association. Lernen tells Serie that he is unqualified to test Frieren, as he was able to tell at a glance that Frieren was suppressing her mana. Serie then asks Falsch whether he noticed this as well, to which Falsch replies negatively. Falsch states that he saw Frieren's mana in the exam hall with his own eyes, and that there was no sign of the instability that occurs whenever mana is restrained. He demonstrates this by restraining his own mana and showing the resultant instability. Falsch then concludes that even if it were possible, to eliminate this instability, one would have to spend an unimaginable amount of time working on mana restraint, rendering it an unpractical technique. Serie tells the other first-class mages that Frieren is one that has devoted her whole life to said unpractical technique.
Later, Falsch is the one to announce the format of the third stage to the remaining first-class mage candidates. He tells the mages that have gathered in front of the doors of the exam hall that the third stage will be an interview with the Great Mage Serie.

Foundation Festival Arc:
During the National Foundation Festival, Falsch and Sense are assigned to protect Serie after First-Class Mage Lineal warns them of an assassination plot targeting her during the grand ball in the Imperial Capital, Eiseberg.
In the capital, Falsch and Sense await the arrival of Frieren's party and seek their assistance. As Sense outlines the mission, Fern asks about the other two First-Class Mages involved. Falsch explains that Übel and Land are currently gathering vital intelligence.
Later that day, after Übel and Land were captured by the Empire’s Magic Special Forces, Falsch and Sense discuss the situation and wonder what the Special Forces might be doing here in the capital. Eventually, Sense decides that she will bail out both Übel and Land, though Falsch advises against this, noting the Special Forces' resentment towards Sense and their familiarity with her. Falsch recommends that they should wait it out.
The next day, Falsch prepares breakfast for the group, including Fern, Stark, Frieren, and Sense. While pouring a drink for Sense, he chides her for reading during the meal. After breakfast, Frieren, Fern, and Stark go to the market and buy a vase from the era of the Unified Empire. Upon their return, Falsch examines the vase and confirms it is a fake, which causes Frieren to fall down and cry. Later, as Frieren sulks, Falsch is seen examining a map for the upcoming operation.
After the Shadow Warriors conclude their meeting, Falsch secretly watches Routine and Iris from behind a pillar as they leave through an underground passage.
(This section is currently in active development and has no main content yet.)

Abilities:
Falsch is a strong mage, as indicated by his status as a first-class mage. He is one of the three mages pictured, alongside Sense and Genau, when Richter extols the inhuman power of first-class mages.
Mana detection: Falsch is shown to be skilled at mana detection. Before the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, he is able to clearly discern the mana output of the candidates and point out which candidates are most promising. However, unlike Lernen, Falsch is unable to detect the fluctuations of Frieren's restrained mana output.
Hand-to-hand combat: As stated by Sense, both she and Falsch excel in hand-to-hand combat, and they are on the level of skilled Warriors. This suggests that Falsch's magic grants him powerful close-quarters capabilities similar to Sense's hair magic.

Spells:
Unnamed shadow magic: Falsch can conceal himself in a shadow and seemingly emerge at will. He also appears to be capable of manipulating the shadows aroudn him.
Unnamed cloaking magic: Falsch can use magic that envelop a target with a cloak, which he uses on Serie to keep her hidden.
Spell to change his voice freely: After passing the First-Class Mage Exam, Falsch requested a voice changing spell from Serie. The spell allows Falsch to mimic the voice of any person he desires, and he specifically requested the spell to enable him to reproduce Serie's voice.

Trivia:
"Falsch" in German means "false" or "wrong," both in an ethical as well as a Boolean logic meaning.
Falsch ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 83rd in the first popularity contest. 97th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Falsch ranked 98th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).