Dünste (ドゥンスト, Dunsuto) is a mage who participates in the First-Class Mage Exam. In the first stage of the exam, he is placed in the seventeenth party alongside Edel and Blei.

Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Affiliation: 17th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Light Brown
Eye Color: Brown
Manga Debut: Chapter 39 (partial appearance), Chapter 46 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 19 (partial appearance), Episode 22 (full appearance)
Japanese VA: Masafumi Kobatake
English VA: Christopher R. Sabat

Personality:
Not much is known about Dünste's personality. He is a quiet individual, choosing rarely to speak and often deferring to others, such as when he listened to Edel's orders to use fire on the frozen lake during the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam. When he and Blei are running from Sense's Spiegel clone, a wounded Blei stays back to hold it off and tells Dünste to flee. Despite his normally deferential attitude, Dünste briefly interjects and hesitates for a moment before running off to find others.

Appearance:
Dünste is a tall, thin mage with a recessed hairline and long hair that extends past his shoulders. He also sports a neatly groomed mustache. Dünste wears long, black robes with two accented jacket panels and a light colored hood. He wears a white turtleneck shirt beneath the robes.

Synopsis:
First-Class Mage Exam Arc (First Stage):
Dünste is one of the participants in the First-Class Mage Exam held in Äußerst. In the first stage of the exam, he is placed in the seventeenth party alongside Edel and Blei. The party has the idea to wait by the lake for a Stille to appear. When Lawine freezes the lake, the seventeenth party appears shocked. Dünste and Blei are ordered by Edel to try to melt the lake with fire magic. It is unknown what happens after this but towards the end of the exam, Dünste is shown to have fallen over. There is a Stille perched on him and Edel and Blei sneak up on it to catch it. He and the rest of the seventeenth party thus manage to pass the first stage of the exam.
In the interim between the first and second stage he is shown walking around Äußerst with Edel and Blei. He reads the notice about the second exam together with them.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Second Stage):
Dünste is among the participants who listen to Sense explain the second stage of the exam. After some time deliberating, Dünste, Edel and Blei all head inside together. They make progress into the dungeon, but they are ultimately cornered by Sense's Spiegel clone. Dünste listens to Edel explain the properties of modern magic and why he and Blei would have trouble fighting in a dungeon. After, Blei asks Edel if her magic could work on the clone. Edel is unsure, but Blei convinces her to give it a shot. Dünste asks how long they would need to hold off the clone, and soon after Sense's Spiegel clone attacks, causing them to fall to her level from a higher point in the dungeon. The three of them attack Sense's clone by using the spell to make things float and throwing large chunks of debris at the clone. At Edel's command, Dünste and Blei use defensive magic to try to hold off the clone's hair attacks. However, they are not able to hold off the clone for very long, as it incorporates both of defensive magic's weaknesses in its attack. After Edel's gambit fails and she is wounded, Dünste casts offensive magic to protect Edel. Edel tells them to find fighters to help them before she uses her golem to escape. As they run away they are chased by the Spiegel clone which mortally wounds Blei. Dünste tries to stay back for a moment to help, but Blei tells him to run, as he can try to hold off Sense's clone and at the very least one of them should pass. Dünste hesitates for a moment before escaping.
Dünste later comes across the main group at the bottom of the dungeon. He falls to the ground, having been wounded on the shoulder by Sense's clone while fleeing. Methode quickly comes to his aid, and when she asks after Edel's whereabouts Dünste explains the story to the group. He then tells the group that he has information and asks if they would be willing to work together, which Denken points out is what he had wanted from the beginning. Dünste is healed by Methode's healing magic while he joins the strategy meeting. He affirms to the rest that the Spiegel clones don't have minds so hypnosis magic does not work on them. He then listens to Lawine and Kanne's information about the clones. As the others formulate a plan, Fern brings up that the clones probably have the same vulnerabilities as the person they copied, which Dünste agrees with. Fern then demonstrates Frieren's weakness to the group, which much to everyone's shock is an amateur mistake. After this, they all work together to find a way to beat the clones. As Frieren and Fern enter the innermost room of the dungeon to fight the clone, Denken asks everyone which mage they'd have the worst matchup against. The rest of the group has been tasked with stopping the other clones from gathering at the base of the dungeon, which could attack a distracted Frieren and Fern and cause everyone to be defeated.
As Dünste and Kanne both are unable to utilize their magic effectively within a dungeon, they are tasked to team up against the clone of Richter together. Dünste attacks the Richter clone with offensive magic which he dodges. As the clone uses Bargland to disrupt the ground, Dünste blocks with defensive magic. Kanne then tries to sneak attack the clone, and when that fails, both Dünste and Kanne attack together. They continue the battle of attrition while Frieren and Fern fight the Spiegel clone of Frieren. Towards the end of the fight, Richter's clone uses Bargland once again, but before the attack can land and do damage, the clone disappears, showing Frieren and Fern were victorious in their fight. Dünste then joins the crowd of people at the bottom of the dungeon in the treasury room, where they witness Frieren stuck in a mimic. He and the others are then congratulated by Sense and told that they have passed the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam.

First-Class Mage Exam (Third Stage):
Dünste is later seen amongst the rest of the examinees listening to Falsch explain the structure of the third stage of the exam. He is the second examinee to speak to Serie. Serie fails him right away, presumably for being scared of how much mana she has or for being unable to visualize becoming a first-class mage. It is unknown what Dünste does after the First-Class Mage Exam concludes.

Abilities:
Not much is known about Dünste's abilities, though in order to participate in the First-Class Mage Exam, his rank is at least fifth-class. According to Edel, his magic cannot be used within the Ruins of the King's Tomb. It is likely that he uses a modern magic that manipulates matter that isn't found subterraneously or within man-made structures.

Unnamed Fire Spell (炎の魔法, Honō no mahō): In the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, Dünste casts a fire spell in order to try to melt the lake that Lawine has frozen over.
Offensive magic: Zoltraak (一般攻撃魔法, Zorutorāku): A simple spell that shoots either a large blast or multiple smaller blasts of concentrated mana. In the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, he cast this spell against Richter's Spiegel clone.

Trivia:
Dünste's name is likely based on the German word "Dunst," which means "vapor" or "haze." "Dünste" is the plural form of "Dunst."
In Chapter 52, Dünste is referred to as "Dünnste" by Methode. This was likely an error.
Dünste ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 74th in the first popularity contest. 79th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Dünste ranked 83rd when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).