Flamme (フランメ, Furanme) was a human mage and the mentor of Frieren. She is regarded as a Great Mage from ages past and appears in modern chronicles of magic. She was one of Serie's former apprentices.

Aliases: The Great Mage Flamme
Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Great Mage (大魔法使い)
Status: Deceased
Hair Color: Orange
Eye Color: Blue-green
Manga Debut: Chapter 7
Anime Debut: Episode 4
Japanese VA: Atsuko Tanaka
English VA: Lydia Mackay

Personality:
Frieren thought of Flamme as an unpleasant person and commented that Flamme "playing her like a fiddle" was the usual. She also called Flamme someone who was known to exaggerate.

Flamme was ruthless when fighting demons. She empathized with Frieren's hatred of demons, and, despite her love of magic, she was willing to constantly suppress her mana, something she considered cowardly and a mockery of magic, in order to kill them. She likened herself to Serie—someone unable to visualize a peaceful era, and thus unable to defeat the Demon King.

However, Flamme appeared to have a gentle personality; her favorite spell was one to make a field of flowers, and she dreamed of and pioneered an age where everyone could learn magic and learn spells such as that one. She saved Frieren when she was orphaned and raised her. She appeared to understand Frieren well, and predicted that Frieren would make a grave mistake and wish to revisit someone she had lost—this came true in the form of Himmel's death. She also had great trust in her disciple, declaring to Serie that Frieren, as a mage of a peaceful era, would be the one to kill the Demon King.

Appearance:
Flamme had orange hair styled into a long, thick braid that reached to her knees with sideswept bangs and two strands of hair that reached her chest, framing her face. She commonly wore loose fitting clothing in the styles of tunics or togas. She wore dark brown sandals, reminiscent of those worn in Ancient Greece, which reached below her knees. Flamme also wore numerous accessories, including a dark brown band on her upper left arm, thick gold bracelets, and a gold choker with a teardrop-shaped, red jewel.

Synopsis:
History:
Flamme is known as "The Great Mage Flamme" for being one of the most renowned mages that have ever existed, even after over a thousand years have passed. Additionally, the barriers she conjured are so strong that Demons still cannot break through them in the present.

As a child, Flamme was the pupil of Serie, who raised her on a whim. Before she became Serie's student, she lived with her parents, at least one of whom was a mage, as they showed her a spell to produce a beautiful field of flowers. This spell is what made her fall in love with magic. It is implied that Flamme's parents were killed by demons when she was young, hence Serie taking her under her wing.

When Frieren lost her elven village to demons, Flamme took her in and taught her how to fight and use magic for revenge. Flamme empathized with Frieren's hatred of demons and stated that demons had also taken everything from her. She knew Frieren so well that she expected Frieren to one day seek guidance and desire to learn more about humans after making a grave mistake. Flamme set up a grimoire with notes about Aureole—a location Flamme had visited at some point in the past—meant to guide Frieren in the future. These notes were protected by a sapling that Flamme planted and enchanted, which served as the grimoire's protector until Frieren would return one day.

Flamme's dream was to see an era in which anyone could use magic come to pass. This was born out of her genuine love of magic. When Flamme was younger, in human society, all forms of magic were deemed to be demonic techniques, and thus, open research on these techniques was considered taboo. Flamme was able to influence the Emperor of the largest unified empire on the continent to approve the research of magic country-wide, and she helped establish and educate a new division of Imperial Mages. Flamme was thus responsible for helping to usher in an era in which all of mankind would be able to use magic and acquire the power to oppose the Demon King's army. For this, Flamme is known as the founder of mankind's magic.

Before her death, Flamme taught Frieren a spell to produce a field of flowers, the same one that had made her fall in love with magic. She told Frieren she was glad she had entrusted her magic to her, and told Frieren to live modestly, for the day she made her mark on history would be the day she defeated the Demon King.

Flamme asked Frieren to deliver her will to Serie upon her death. She asks Serie to take over training the Imperial Mages established in the Empire, and also correctly predicts that Serie would be infuriated at the request and tear her will up. Despite this, she wanted to tell Serie that her dream had come true; Serie attests that within just one thousand years, the era of humans will have arrived.

Relationships:
Frieren:
Flamme was able to empathize with Frieren upon their initial encounter, having also lost everything dear to her to demons. They both share a deep love for magic despite their animosity towards the demons.
The first time she met Frieren, Flamme praised her for standing her ground against and defeating a horde of powerful demons, but at the same time told her that it would have been smarter to just run away and hide or resort to ambushes. She was also the one who taught Frieren to suppress her mana output so that demons would underestimate her and get caught off guard, fully aware that it was seen as a dirty and cowardly strategy. Flamme was a young Frieren's teacher with her own quirks, according to Frieren. She was quite cryptic about what she taught her.
Flamme raised a young Frieren until she died of old age. She stated that she was glad she entrusted her magic to Frieren, and she fully believed that her pupil would one day defeat the Demon King.

Serie:
Flamme was Serie's student. Despite Serie claiming that she took Flamme as her apprentice on a whim, and that in the end, the two of them could never understand each other, Flamme was shown to understand Serie much better than she thought. Flamme correctly predicted that Serie would be displeased with her will and would tear it up, but she still wanted to tell her master that her dream had come true, showing she still cared about Serie. She also understood that Serie, just like she herself, would never be able to defeat the Demon King as she could not imagine an era of peace.
Despite not outwardly showing it, Serie cared for Flamme, as shown where she fondly reflected on their time together and remembered Flamme's favorite spell even a thousand years later, despite thinking it was pointless.

Abilities:
As the founder of humanity's magic, Flamme was considered a prodigy whose spells surpass even the magic of the present.
Mana Concealment: Flamme has mastered the art of concealing her mana, and uses it as a deception strategy against demons. Having trained it constantly, her skill in concealment is exceptional.

Spells:
Unnamed Offensive Spell: A spell that creates an instanteneous explosion in front of the user.
Spell to produce a field of flowers (花畑を出す魔法, Hanabatake o dasu mahō): Flamme's favorite magic, to produce a beautiful field of flowers, which holds sentimental value to her. Flamme was taught this spell by her parents as a child, which made her fall in love with magic.
Barrier Magic (結界魔法, Kekkai mahō): Producing barriers that last to the present day — one thousand years after they were created — remains to be one of the most notable skills in her arsenal. Some of Flamme's barriers rely on the life-force of powerful living things, such as great trees, to sustain themselves.
Golem magic: Flamme was highly skilled at golem magic, as she was capable of creating an advanced cooking golem that was harder then metal and could act autonomously. The quality of the golem was good enough for it to still functional after a millenium.

Trivia:
"Flamme" is the German word for "flame." This is juxtaposed with Frieren's name, which is the German word for "freezing."
Flamme ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 16th in the first popularity contest. 29th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Flamme ranked 9th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).
Flamme was one of the final roles performed by Japanese voice actress, Atsuko Tanaka, before her death on August 20, 2024.
Despite having the same title of (大魔法使い, Daimahōtsukai) as Frieren and Serie, Crunchyroll translates Flamme's title as "Legendary Mage" rather than "Great Mage."