Serie (ゼーリエ, Zērie) is an elven mage known for her expansive knowledge in the area of magic. She is described as a living grimoire and is the head of the Continental Magic Association. Serie refers to herself as a Great Mage from the Mythical Era.

Aliases: The Great Mage Serie, Founder of the Continental Magic Association, Living Grimoire
Age: 1000+
Gender: Female
Species: Elf
Class: Mage
Rank: Great Mage (大魔法使い)
Affiliation: Continental Magic Association
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Gold
Eye Color: Gold
Manga Debut: Chapter 43
Anime Debut: Episode 20 (mentioned), Episode 21 (debut)
Japanese VA: Mariya Ise
English VA: Anastasia Muñoz

Personality:
Like most elves, Serie does not often express emotions, and appears rather cold at times. However, Serie is very fair in her assessment of others and has a sharp intuition when it comes to potential. She is pragmatic when assessing situations, immediately recognizing certain dangers, but still willing to concede to her disciples' wishes.
With her status and her knowledge, she has gained multiple apprentices throughout the years. Serie acts and initially seems ambivalent about her human apprentices. When faced with their limitations due to lifespan, she declares that human apprentices should not be taken after all, and she claims that she merely took Flamme as an apprentice on a whim. Yet, despite this act, even after centuries or millennia passing, it is noted that she has not forgotten any of her disciples' favorite magic nor their personalities; despite claiming that Flamme's favorite magic was a pointless spell, she conducts the third stage of the First-Class Mage Exam amongst a field of flowers generated by this magic.
Like many elves, Serie is not very in touch with her emotions, and as such, she has difficulty properly expressing and identifying her feelings. Serie has admitted that while being disappointed that a vast majority of her apprentices never reached her level nor left a huge mark in history, she never regretted taking them on as her students.
Serie values those with burning ambition. She views magic as merely a tool for killing and disagrees vehemently with Frieren's feelings about how the greatest enjoyment of magic comes only during the pursuit of it. Accordingly, Flamme calls her a warmonger. Despite this, she seems to enjoy meeting and fighting those who are strong, and she finds those that can utilize various applications of magic and possess a wide array of spells fascinating.

Appearance:
Serie is an elf with golden hair and golden eyes. As an elf, she possesses large pointed ears and a youthful appearance, despite being even older than Frieren. Serie wears her hair loose except for four portions that she has tied at the base. Her bangs, which frame her face, have also been tied off at the bottom. She wears a loose white top with a green brooch and white shorts. When out, she wears a long red cape with gold fastenings and green jewel embellishments hanging from the fastenings. The top of the cape is lined with white fur. Serie is often seen without footwear. She has two bangles or wrappings on her ankles.
In the past, Serie was shown wearing a light colored toga dress in a similar style as Flamme's. She did not wear any ornamentation on her arms or in her hair, but wore two bangles or wrappings on her ankles. She wore a necklace with several pendants.
When she fights Macht, Serie wears footwear and socks that she has tied off with ribbon ornamentation. She also dons a loose fitting jacket. The rest of her outfit remains unchanged from her outfit in the Continental Magic Association.

Abilities:
Due to her unmatched knowledge and skill, Serie is regarded as the mage closest to the omnipotent and omniscient Goddess.

"Living Grimoire": Serie knows almost every spell known to humanity, including ancient and long-forgotten spells from the mythical age, and she claims to have knowledge of practically every grimoire written throughout humanity's history, earning her the title of "Living Grimoire."
Immense mana output: Serie's restrained mana rivals Frieren's unrestrained mana. Serie herself is constantly limiting her mana, and it is unknown what her true mana output is.
Mana concealment: Serie is a master at limiting and concealing her mana output. Even mages that are able to detect the instability in Frieren's mana, such as Lernen, are unable to detect any instability in Serie's mana. Fern is the only human mage that has demonstrated the capability to detect any instability with Serie's mana thus far. Serie can also choose to completely suppress her mana output and become effectively invisible to enemies with even the most refined mana detection. She was able to infiltrate Weise without Macht of the Golden Land—who is considered to be the most powerful of the Seven Sages of Destruction—sensing her presence at all, a feat even Frieren could not accomplish.
Instinct: It was mentioned by Frieren that Serie's instinct has always been correct. During the third stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, Serie is able to determine which participants are worthy of passing based purely on this instinct and intuition. Serie is also able to tell to some extent what the participants are thinking and feeling when meeting her.

Spells:
Barrier magic: Serie has the ability to create powerful magical barriers. Over a week before the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, she constructed an enormous barrier enclosing the section of the forest where the test would be held, completely blocking water and even the tiniest particles of dust from passing through. Genau, the exam's proctor, along with most of the mages participating in the test, declared it impossible to dismantle. However, after nearly an entire day of analysis, Frieren succeeded in breaking it.
Spell to transfer a spell: Fürwehrer: A spell that allows Serie to transfer spells she has learned to other mages. It generates a grimoire containing her knowledge of the spell which, when read, allows the reader to instantly learn the spell even if it would be impossible for them to learn normally. The spell transfers Serie's knowledge, thus she forgets the spells once she grants them to others. However, it is possible for Serie to relearn them.
Curse Reversal Spell: Mistilziela: A primitive magic that reflects any magic it perceives to be a "curse" back to its source. It takes a hundred years to learn and requires a colossal amount of mana to cast.
Spatial magic: When battling Macht, Serie avoided a strike from his great sword by using a form of spatial magic to distort the point of impact and prevent the blade from hitting her.
Defensive magic: Like most modern mages, Serie is capable of casting defensive magic in the form of hexagonal protective barriers that can defend specific locations or encircle the caster. Serie demonstrated this spell in her battle against Macht, where she blocked his offensive magic, Zoltraak.

Relationships:
(This section is currently in active development and has no main content yet.)

Trivia:
Serie is a German loan word from the Latin "serere" (meaning "to join in a series" or "string together") and means "series."
Serie ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 15th in the first popularity contest. 14th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Serie ranked 16th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).