Land (ラント, Ranto) is a former second-class mage and a member of the fourth party, alongside Fern and Übel, during the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam. He later passes the exam and becomes a first-class mage. Land specializes in clone magic.

Aliases: Four-Eyes (Übel)
Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Third-Class (former), Second-Class (former), First-Class (Chapter 60)
Affiliation: 4th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Relatives: Unnamed grandmother (deceased), Unnamed parents (deceased)
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Blonde
Eye Color: Brown
Manga Debut: Chapter 37 (partial appearance), Chapter 39 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 18 (partial appearance), Episode 19 (full appearance)
Japanese VA: Shōhei Komatsu
English VA: Corey Wilder

Personality:
Land is cool, calculating and overly cautious. He prefers to wait and let his opponents make the first move so he can analyze them and determine their weaknesses while utilizing his duplication magic to catch them off guard and ensure he's never in any danger. By his own admission, he does not trust anyone and barely interacts with the other examinees of the First-Class Mage Exam except for Übel. Despite this, he seems to have a conscience and doesn't like to have another's blood on his hands. During the second stage of the exam, he refuses to use Übel's escape golem after losing his own (though this may be due to him being a clone) and later rescues her from being killed by her clone, in spite of the fact she threatened his life previously.
During the third stage exam, Serie commends him for having the guts to participate in the First-Class Mage Exam without leaving his hometown and using his clone as proxy. He even tries to fool her into believing that the second clone is actually him only for her to see through him easily.
Two years after the First-Class Mage Exam, Übel describes Land as timid, as well as someone who does not like to abandon others.

Appearance:
Land is a male mage of average height with blonde hair and brown eyes. He wears spectacles. Land typically sports a disinterested expression. He wears a black long-sleeved shirt with a white center, black pants belted at the waist, and black shoes. On top of his shirt, he wears a white half-coat with a long neck, white fastenings, and long sleeves. Black fabric hangs loosely from the white half-coat and hangs loosely open at the front of his body.

Synopsis:
History:
Land grew up in a village nestled in a forested region. After the death of his parents at a young age, he lived with his grandmother. As a child, he and his grandmother faced persecution by the Magic Special Forces for unknown reasons. While still a third-class mage, Land attended a magic school in the Imperial Capital. Shortly afterward, his grandmother died peacefully of old age. Within the next three years, he achieved the rank of second-class mage.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (First Stage):
Land initially appears at the start of the First-Class Mage Exam, where he joins Fern and Übel in a team for the first stage of the exam. The three of them are able to catch a Stille thanks to Fern's bird capturing spell, but they get separated upon being attacked by Wirbel's party. Land ends up fighting Scharf, who appears to have the advantage at first, using his flower petal magic to injury Land's arm. However, Scharf is quickly defeated when one of Land's clones sneaks up behind him and knocks him out with a blow to the neck. It is later revealed that during the fight, another one of Land's clones was observing the battle between Übel and Wirbel.
After reuniting with his teammates, Land accompanies them to a cave where they hide to try and avoid any further confrontations. He interrupts Fern talking about the spells she knows to suggest they do not show their hands to each other as they will be rivals in the second stage of the exam.
After passing the first stage of the exam, Land returns to Äußerst, where he is followed by Übel who uses Sorganeil to bind him while she explains her powers to him. Land is not intimidated and tells her he doesn't care if she kills him. Übel releases him and he walks away, asking her not to follow him. Despite this, she continues accompanying him in an attempt to get to know him better, and he ends up begrudgingly eating with her at a restaurant. He is sitting on a bench with Übel when he receives the letter announcing the location and date of the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Second Stage):
Übel continues following Land around at the start of the second stage much to his annoyance, and he eventually enters the Ruins of the King's Tomb with her. They are soon attacked by Übel's Spiegel clone, who manages to take him by surprise and badly wound him as well as stealing his escape golem. Trapped at a dead end, Land and Übel discuss the clone's capabilities and he observes that while it is unable to talk, it has knowledge about their capabilities and is wary of approaching because of the real Übel's Sorganeil. Übel asks him if he is the real Land, and he responds saying that there is only one way to find out. Übel offers her own escape golem to him so he can use it to escape, but he refuses, stating it is for her own survival.
Despite his protests, she goes to fight her clone and gets caught by Sorganeil. Before it can finish her off however, another Land clone appears behind her and charges up a spell, distracting the clone long enough for the real Übel to use her cutting magic to kill it. Übel picks up the stolen escape golem only to find it is also a fake. Land asks her why she made such a risky move and she answers by saying she knew he would hate to have her blood on his hands when he refused to take her escape golem and that he would come to rescue her if she was going to die. Land asks whether she can emphasize with him yet and copy his power, but she says that she thinks it will take more time.
Land is still with Übel when they meet up with Denken and discuss Sense's clone. Übel offers to take care of it but Land protests that she could not even beat Wirbel, and even Denken, the strongest among them, cannot beat Sense. Übel insists she can cut through Sense with Reelseiden, but Land notes that Sense's hair has many layers of spells cast on it that would make cutting through her hair extremely difficult. Despite Land telling her to wait, Übel goes to fight Sense's clone.
After Übel defeats Sense's clone, Land is restrained by Sorganeil again which is cast by a revived Übel clone. She is accompanied by a Land clone and they are approached from behind by Lawine, Kanne, and Laufen clones. Land says they should just give up, but they manage to survive long enough for Frieren and Fern to defeat the Spiegel and stop the clones, resulting in them making it to the innermost depths of the dungeon and successfully passing the second stage of the exam.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Third Stage):
Land attends the third stage of the exam, where he is interviewed by Serie. She immediately realizes he is a clone and is annoyed that he has not even taken a single step into the exam area. Another Land reveals himself and claims to be the real one, but Serie surprises him by identifying him as another clone and stating that his real body has never even left his home village, something not even Übel was able to see through. Serie says he has guts and passes him, making him a first-class mage.

Foundation Festival Arc:
(This section is currently in active development and has no main content yet.)

Abilities:
Land is skilled enough as a mage to reach the elite rank of first-class mage.
Mana concealment: Land is highly skilled at concealing him mana. During his fight with Scharf, he was able to sneak behind him and grab his neck before Scharf noticed his presence. He was also able to hide his presence from the members of the Magic Special Forces while being in the same room as them.
Mana detection: Übel has noted that Land is highly proficient at mana detection. Land can detect mana from far distances, such as when he was able to sense a marketplace below a cliff from the top of a tower.
Keen intellect: Land has proven himself to be an analytical fighter and was described by Übel to be rather devious. After a brief exchange between him and Scharf, he was able to figure out that Scharf is self-taught and lacks fundamentals. Land's standard tactic is to use his clone as a distraction and attack enemies from blind spots after gathering enough intel on them. During the Foundation Festival in Eiseberg he was also shown to be an effective spy who can work incognito during secret missions.

Spells:
Clone magic: Land uses a powerful cloning magic to create near perfect clones of himself. While the full extent of his powers is unknown, he can create and control at least two clones at once from a great distance, being capable of using his clones to complete the First-Class Mage Exam in Äußerst without ever leaving his home village. His clones seemingly have the same appearance and powers as the original Land and are almost indistinguishable as clones. Serie is the only person who has been able to both identify the clones as well as locate the original Land in his home village. Land also seems to be capable of creating duplicates of objects, such as his escape golem in the second stage of the exam, but the duplicates he creates do not appear to have the same magical capabilities as the originals.
Defensive magic: Land is capable of casting defensive magic in the form of a hexagonal protective barriers. His clone was able to block several attacks from Scharf's Jubelade spell, although Scharf eventully overpowered the clone's barrier.
Spell that produces an electric shock: Land can use a spell that creates a small shock of electricity, which temporarily paralyzes the opponent. It requires Land or his clone to directly touch the target.
Spell to locate his family's remains: Land was granted this spell by Serie for passing the First-Class Mage Exam. It presumably enables him to find the location of the bodies of his family members.

Relationships:
Übel:
Land is cautious and dubious around Übel, considering her dangerous to be around. He is aware of her intention to imitate his clone magic and actively tries to avoid her and prevent disclosing information about himself, with the understanding that she may try to kill him. Übel constantly hangs around and pesters him while trying to get to know him better, which often annoys him.
A while after both mages achieve the rank of first-class, Übel travels to Land's village and invites him on a mission given by Serie. He is wary of her and attempts to escape, but Übel later finds him at his grandmother's grave. Übel voices her lack of understanding surrounding Land, and Land tells her about him, his grandmother, and his connection with his village. He reluctantly agrees to accompany her on the mission as a way to escape and break the lingering ties he has with his village. Übel questions if he is hitting on her and requests that he continues to flirt with her.

Trivia:
"Land" is German for "land," "country," "soil," or "ground."
Land's favorite drink is black tea.
Land ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 12th in the first popularity contest. 26th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Land ranked 27th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).