Fern (フェルン, Ferun) is a young human mage, and she accompanies Frieren as her apprentice and party member. She is an orphaned war refugee originally from the Southern Lands, later adopted by Heiter and placed under Frieren's care after his death.

Gender: Female
Age: 9 (Chapter 2), 13 (middle of Chapter 2), 15 (Chapter 3), 16 (Chapter 4), 16–17 (Chapter 6), 18 (Chapter 29), 19–20 (current)
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Third-Class (former), First-Class (Chapter 60)
Affiliation: Frieren's Party, 4th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Relatives: Heiter (adoptive father, deceased), Unnamed parents (deceased)
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Purple
Eye Color: Purple
Manga Debut: Chapter 2
Anime Debut: Episode 1
Japanese VA: Kana Ichinose
English VA: Jill Harris

Personality:
Fern has a mature personality as a result of her upbringing, leading her to often act as the mother of the party. She constantly has to help Frieren perform ordinary tasks such as waking her up due to her being a deep sleeper, feeding her, and dressing her, along with cleaning up her messes. She acts similarly around Stark, such as getting mad when he stays up late, even though they are around the same age.

Despite her outward motherly nature, Fern is easily upset and can act childish when others don't cater to what she wants or offend her, and in extreme cases, pouting and completely ignoring them when they attempt to reconcile, though this can be resolved through actions like treating her with food and abiding by demands she makes. She also has a habit of following around and watching others when she is suspicious or curious about them instead of confronting them directly, as seen when she stalks Frieren after suspecting her of making poor financial decisions and investigating Stark when she struggles to find a suitable birthday gift for him.

Fern is also a very loyal apprentice and has the discipline to train incredibly hard since she was young so she can manage on her own, ultimately becoming a powerful mage acknowledged by Frieren. She rarely cracks under pressure and is able to keep a level head in combat despite receiving injuries and battling opponents that are more powerful or experienced than her. Her devotion to learning magic stems from the loss of her parents at an early age and her subsequent adoption by Heiter; after nearly giving up after her parents' death, she was stopped by the priest, who advised her to stay alive for the sake of keeping the good memories she had. As a result, she became extremely dedicated with the maturity to learn magic and prove to Heiter that he could pass peacefully without any regrets and without worrying about her. Fern clings to magic, as in a situation where she cannot rely on it, she feels as though she has been thrown into darkness.

Appearance:
Fern is a young human with purple eyes and long, waist-length purple hair with bangs. She usually wears her hair down with two additional chest-length strands framing her face in a hime-style haircut and partially tied back. After turning sixteen, Fern grew to be taller than Frieren and with a more developed figure. As a result of her mature and calm personality, she frequently wears a stoic expression and rarely expresses strong emotions. Her facial features are characteristic of those from the Southern Lands.

During her travels with Frieren, Fern is most commonly seen wearing a long, buttoned white dress with a Victorian top, including a frilled collar and puffy white sleeves, along with black boots. When outdoors, she also dons a long, black coat with a hood, which has a gray inside layer. For Fern's sixteenth birthday, Frieren gifted her a butterfly hair ornament, which Fern regularly wears on the back of her head to partially tie her hair back. Fern also frequently wears a mirrored-lotus bracelet on her left wrist, gifted to her by Stark for her eighteenth birthday.

Staff:
As a mage, Fern wields a long, wooden staff wrapped with purple ribbons in battle, which was a gift to her from Heiter. The staff was shattered in the fight against Frieren's Spiegel clone in the second test of the First-Class Mage Exam. The broken staff led to a quarrel between Frieren and Fern, which was resolved after Frieren brought the staff's remains to Richter, who was able to fully reconstruct it.

Winter Attire:
After the events at Graf Granat's Domain, Graf Granat gifts Fern a dark-blue, long-sleeved dress that she wears with a thick, cropped, light-gray winter jacket and braided, blue scarf in colder settings. This replaced her former winter attire, which consisted solely of a brown shawl over her normal clothes.

Other Attire:
When she was a child, Fern had short, purple hair cut into a straight bob with bangs, decorated with a large, red ribbon on the side of her head. She wore very similar clothing to her present-day outfit, consisting of a smaller version of the buttoned white dress and black cloak, with black Mary Jane shoes. Prior to being adopted by Heiter, she wore a light-colored shoulder cape and possessed a locket with a photo of her family.
In Heiß, Fern picks a light-purple dress to wear on a date with Stark. The dress goes down to her shins and has a floral pattern with large, elbow-length sleeves. It is decorated with a collar, tied with a small ribbon that reveals a small cutout. Fern wears this dress with white flats and a small, white purse. Fern chooses the floral dress for the date over a black dress with lace accents.

Accessories:
As her eighteenth birthday present, Sein buys a small, brown pouch with a butterfly motif and gifts it to Fern.

Abilities:
Ever since she was young, Fern displayed a talent for controlling her mana and limiting her presence. Fern is capable of overwhelming powerful mages, such as Ehre, while simply using basic spells, and according to Falsch, she is the youngest mage in history to pass the third-class mage exam with the highest score. Her talent is also recognized by Serie, who passes her during the First-Class Mage Exam and even states that under her tutelage, Fern could reach heights that no other mage has achieved.

Mana concealment: Like Frieren, Fern is an expert at concealing her mana, a skill she has maintained ever since she was a child. As a result, she can often sneak up on individuals, including demons, without being detected. She was able to catch the powerful demon Lügner off guard, which surprised him greatly as the adept mana detection of his subordinate Linie would normally expose human mages. She was also able to approach Wirbel, a mage strong enough to become the captain of the Northern Magic Corps, without him sensing her until she was right next to him, and even Frieren herself claims to have trouble locating Fern when she is concealing her mana. She is arguably better at mana concealment than Frieren, given she can move while completely concealing her mana, whereas Frieren must stay still.

Mana detection: Fern has shown to be more skilled at detecting mana than any other individual introduced so far. She was able to determine that Serie's mana was unstable, something that not even Lernen, the first ever first-class mage and an apprentice of Serie for over fifty years, was able to achieve. This feat was impressive enough for Serie to request Fern be her apprentice on the spot despite initially planning to fail her.

Spellcasting speed: While she is inferior to Frieren in terms of techniques and mana, Fern's strength lies in her ability to rapidly cast spells. According to Frieren, battles end more quickly when Fern fights. When Fern fought against Lügner, she was able to overcome his attempts at outlasting her in a battle of attrition because she was able to cast multiple instances of Zoltraak simultaneously and in rapid succession to counter or even overwhelm his attacks.

Spells:
Offensive magic: Zoltraak (一般攻撃魔法, Zorutorāku): The only offensive spell Fern utilizes. Having practiced it from a young age, she is very familiar with it and is able to cast multiple Zoltraak blasts extremely quickly. Additionally, she is capable of increasing the density of her Zoltraak casts while maintaining the speed, a feat praised by the Greater Demon Solitär.

Defensive magic (防御魔法, Bōgyo mahō): Like most modern mages, Fern is capable of casting defensive magic in the form of a hexagonal protective barriers that can defend specific locations or encircle the caster. With it's use she was able to block multiple blasts of Zoltraak from it's creator Qual.

Spell that lets you see through clothes (服が透けて見える魔法, Fuku ga sukete mieru mahō): A spell that allows the caster to see through what is recognized as articles of clothing, revealing details such as weapons hidden under.

Spell to make things float (物を浮かす魔法, Mono o ukasu mahō): A telekinetic spell that causes the target to float in the air. This spell was mostly used by Fern in day-to-day tasks and quests, such as clearing debris from a beach. However, she is also seen using it in combat to pull her staff to her hand.

Spell that captures a bird (鳥を捕まえる魔法, Tori o tsukamaeru mahō): A form of folk magic originally developed by hunters. It traps any bird or birdlike creature with magic. When used, it produces a glow. The spell has a range of 50 centimeters.

Spell to make clothes clean and spotless (服の汚れをきれいさっぱり落とす魔法, Fuku no yogore o kirei sappari otosu mahō): A legendary spell from the mythical era that was granted to Fern by Serie for passing the First-Class Mage Exam. Any clothing that Fern casts the spell on is rendered clean, spotless, and infused with a pleasant floral scent.

Trivia:
"Fern" in German means "remote" or "far away."
Fern has the same Japanese and English voice actresses as Suletta Mercury from Mobile Suit Gundam the Witch from Mercury and Marlya Noel in Fairy Gone.
Fern ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 5th in the first popularity contest with 6,446,329 points. 3rd in the second popularity contest with 864,863 votes, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Fern ranked 3rd when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).