Methode (メトーデ, Metōde) is a first-class mage that participated in the First-Class Mage Exam at the same time as Frieren and Fern. She is later assisted by Frieren's party in subjugating demons in the Rufen Region of the Northern Plateau.

Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Second-Class (former), First-Class (Chapter 60)
Affiliation: First Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage)), Continental Magic Association
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Yellow brown
Eye Color: Dark blue
Manga Debut: Chapter 40 (partial appearance), Chapter 46 (full appearance)
Japanese VA: Reina Ueda
English VA: Caitlin Glass

Personality:
Methode possesses a friendly, calm and confident personality, making her a valuable strategist and team player, as demonstrated during the second stage of the First-Class Exam when she willingly cooperated and strategized with other mages. Among the first-class mages, Methode is considered to be considerably upright by Lernen.
She has an extreme fondness for cuteness and tiny individuals, especially towards elves like Frieren and Serie. She is notably unfazed by Serie's intimidating presence, focusing solely on how cute the elf is. Ever since becoming a first-class mage, she frequently asks to pat Serie's head, to Serie's reluctance and annoyance. This pampering is not limited to Serie, as she has an easier time giving hugs and pats to Frieren through bribery. After working with Fern to subjugate demons, Methode comments that she also finds Fern's anger adorable.
Similar to Denken and Frieren, Methode has a love for magic that she believes separates her from others who only rely on magic to battle.

Appearance:
Methode is a tall, young adult woman of well-proportioned figure. She has mid-back length brown hair that is wavy and parted through the middle.
During the First-Class Mage Exam, her attire consists of a white top with frills at the top, secured by two crossed straps around her neck. She wears a black corset that is laced with white cords and decorated with white outlines and three stripes on each side, over the top and black shorts. Her outfit also includes dark red leggings and tall, laced boots, all of which are concealed under a long, white collared cape that extends below her knees.
When she reunites with Frieren and her party deeper into the Northern Plateau, Methode wears a tight-fitting black long sleeve jacket top adorned with thick, black fur at the end of the sleeves and over the collar. She pairs this jacket with a long black waist cape, maroon-red pants, and slim black boots.

Synopsis:
First-Class Mage Exam Arc (First Stage):
Methode is a second-class mage who partakes in the First-Class Mage Examination in Äußerst. She was in the First Party with Ton and Länge for the first stage of the exam. The trio successfully captured a Stille in an unknown manner.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Second Stage):
In the second stage of the exam, Methode is among the five mages who chose to remain behind, alongside Richter, Denken, Laufen, and Länge, before entering the Ruin's of the King's Tomb together. Once the presence of the water-mirror demon Spiegel was revealed, Methode becomes a valuable piece in coordinating against the demon's imitation of the mages inside the dungeon due to her wide skill set. She is tasked with fighting Fern's clone, against whom she is confident she could win. As a result, twelve mages, including Methode, passed the second stage of the exam.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Final Stage):
The third stage of the exam involves Serie personally interviewing each of the twelve examinees. Methode passes and becomes a first-class mage immediately when she tells Serie that all she can think of during the interview is Serie's cuteness.

Divine Revolte Arc:
As a newly appointed first-class mage, Methode is tasked by Serie to subjugate demons in the Rufen Region of the Northern Plateau alongside Genau. Genau finds this strange as he believes that Methode does not seem to be a person suited to fighting violently in the plateau, and Methode finds the former to be unpleasant. The two are stationed at Genau's hometown which was massacred at the hands of demons, including the presence of an evidently strong demon. At the same time, Frieren's Party is also tasked with the same subjugation mission, leading both parties to work together.

With Stark's input, Methode is able to determine that the said strong demon had to have been a quadruple wielding demon general working with three other demons. She later groups up with Frieren and Fern to search for the demons, leaving Stark and Genau to defend the ravaged village. She takes this as an opportunity to caress and hug the elf by bribing her with a grimoire, much to Fern's annoyance. Their momentary respite is abruptly interrupted by the appearance of two demons: one casting the spell Fog Control: Nebeladora, and the other, a sword-wielding demon who immediately engages Methode in combat. Quickly realizing the need to dispel the fog for Fern, she switches to a wild fighting style while successfully analyzing and dispelling the fog, thus quickly leading to the deaths of the two demons at the hands of Fern.
With Stark's and Genau's success in killing the Demon General Divine Revolte, the party is successful in subjugating the demons and the two are healed by Methode. The group temporarily resides in the village before Genau and Methode depart to join the escort of the Chivalric Order of Norm. Methode extends her services to Frieren's Party before leaving, but is rebuffed due to the party's willingness to wait for Sein's return.

Relationships:
Serie:
Methode first encounters Serie during the third stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, and she immediately finds the elf to be tiny and adorable, rather than being intimidated by her mana. This impression prompts Serie to pass her, granting Methode the title of first-class mage. Serie later takes her on as an apprentice, and Methode affectionately expresses her desire to be useful as an apprentice.
Due to her fondness for smaller individuals, Methode regularly attempts to pat Serie's head, but Serie seldom allows it and shows a distaste towards the gesture.

Genau:
(This section is a stub and has no content.)

Frieren:
(This section is a stub and has no content.)

Fern:
(This section is a stub and has no content.)

Edel:
Methode is familiar with Edel. She knows of her abilities and thinks highly of them, as she recommends Edel's hypnosis magic as a possible solution for Frieren's Spiegel clone. When an injured Dünste arrives, she asks about Edel's safety.
Methode appears to find Edel cute, as she enjoys patting her head. However, Edel considers her scary and eccentric.

Abilities:
Methode is a versatile mage with a wide pool of magical skills, seemingly without a specialization. She is related to a clan in the Northern Plateau dedicated to killing demons, which shows in her use of a wild, reckless fighting style when necessitated.
High mana output: Methode is surprised when her restraint magic fails to work on Frieren and states that the spell should usually work when there is not an immense difference in mana. This implies that Methode cannot sense Frieren's mana concealment and that her total mana output is somewhat comparable to Frieren's suppressed mana output.
Mana detection: Methode has remarkable mana detection abilities, allowing her to detect the Spiegel clones of mages like Laufen, Lawine, and Richter. She also eventually managed to locate the clones of both Fern and Denken, and she determined that Sense's clone had been defeated by Übel.

Spells:
Restraint and hypnosis magic: Methode is a competent user of restraint and hypnosis magic spells. She possesses the ability to accurately gauge a person's resistance to such magic. During the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, she assesses Frieren's resistance by hugging and attempting to visually penetrate Frieren's mental defenses. Her restraint magic is also powerful enough to work on Fern.
Defensive magic: Methode is capable of casting defensive magic in the form of hexagonal protective barriers as seen when she blocked an attack from a Gargoyle.
Reflection magic: During her battle against the gargoyles in the Ruins of the King's Tomb, Methode takes control of a gargoyle's offensive magic that made contact with her defensive shield and reflects the magic back upon the gargoyle.
Offensive magic: Methode uses a Zoltraak-like spell to attack from a distance in the form of multiple blasts of mana.
Magic of the Goddess: Although Methode is not a Priest, she is able to utilize the Magic of the Goddess with the aid of Holy Scriptures. She can cast simple recovery magic to heal injuries. She is also capable of using autopsy magic to determine the causes of deaths.
Spell to dispel fog: Erilfrachte: A demystification spell utilized by Methode to dispel the fog control spell, Nebeladora, after fully analyzing the fog.

Trivia:
"Methode" is a German loan word from the Latin "methodus" / the Greek "méthodos" (meaning "proceeding according to certain rules") and means "method."
Genau restricts Methode to patting Serie's head for a maximum of ten minutes each day.
Methode ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 18th in the first popularity contest. 38th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Methode ranked 20th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).