Genau (ゲナウ, Genau) is a first-class mage. He is the proctor of the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam held in Äußerst.

Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: First-Class
Affiliation: Continental Magic Association
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Light brown
Eye Color: Brown
Manga Debut: Chapter 37
Anime Debut: Episode 18
Japanese VA: Tarusuke Shingaki
English VA: Aaron Roberts

Personality:
Genau is shown to be a cold-hearted mage. The stage of the First-Class Mage Exam he proctored was constructed to create significant conflict, and he shows no remorse over the subsequent deaths of some examinees, which Sense calls him out for. When he is dispatched on a mission to his hometown with Methode, Genau says he feels no sorrow whatsoever about the massacre of his town's people, only indifference. However, Frieren and Methode also note that Genau possesses an incredibly strong killing intent during the aftermath of the demon massacre, implying Genau is not wholly truthful about his disregard for his hometown's destruction.
Despite his outward attitude, Genau has a strong sense of duty and protectiveness. He loyally follows the orders of Serie and shows respect to her, and he appears be her guard against those that try to get close to her, such as Methode. He has a frosty personality, and only through Serie's command does he willingly work with and greet Methode when she is assigned as his partner.
Genau does not consider himself to be a good person due to his enjoyment of fighting and the number of people that have perished for his goal to bring peace to the Northern Lands, and although he considers those that are kind and friendly to be foolish due to the nature of their missions, he recognizes individuals with such qualities are good people. When Serie talked about the kind-heartedness of Genau's previous mage partner being the reason for his demise, Genau called his partner a hero. However, Serie noted this was an empty statement and told him to maintain his uncaring personality. During the subjugation of the Divine Revolte, Genau realizes he acts out of character by breaking away from the fight to save a child who he does not know is a demon in disguise, causing him to be immediately stabbed, and he recognizes that this impulse to defend a child is the same reason his kind-hearted partner met his end.
While Genau and Methode are parting from Frieren and her party, Genau merely asks Stark how his injuries are, and offhandedly promises to pay them back for their aid. However, when Methode reminds Genau to show gratitude, Genau relents and thanks them for their help.

Appearance:
Genau is a middle-aged man of tall stature. He has short, neatly combed light-brown hair, which is styled with a side part and an undercut.
During the First-Class Mage Exam, Genau's attire reflects the traditional, dark-blue color associated with first-class mages. He dons a long, dark-blue coat with a light-gray trim that extends down to the calves. The coat has an upturned collar and is complemented by a shoulder cape and a simple, white cravat. Underneath, he wears a dark-blue uniform top and pants with brown, knee-high boots.
When dispatched on a mission in the Northern Lands with Methode, he wears a winter version of his first-class mage uniform, consisting of a longer uniform top secured with a belt and a trench coat.

Synopsis:
History:
Genau grew up in a village in the Rufen Region of the Northern Plateau, and he was friends with a baker's son as a kid, who later took over the bakery. He eventually left the village to pursue the path of a first-class mage.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (First Stage):
Genau is the proctor of the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, located at the Grobe Basin. After giving the participants the details of their exam, he and Sense supervise the exam from within the barrier of the exam grounds. Sense calls Genau malicious for creating an exam heavily dependent on luck and for causing the death of many promising examinees. Genau retorts by claiming that a promising mage would not die from a mere exam.

During Denken and Frieren's fight, when Denken conjures a hellfire tornado, Sense asks Genau if the barrier would be fine. Genau responds by claiming that no mage could ever break Serie's barrier, voicing a strong belief in Serie's supremacy over all mages. Even while the barrier is being broken, Genau refuses to believe that it is possible until it finally collapses, at which point he recognizes Frieren's name as the name of the elven mage of the Hero Party.
After the exam's time limit is up, Genau meets with the successful examinees and announces the number of candidates that passed. During the intermission between the first and second stages of the exam, Genau reflects on the details of the upcoming stage with Sense and notes that Sense has created a particularly dreadful test.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Second Stage):
While the second stage of the exam is ongoing, Genau and Falsch have tea in a library at the Continental Magic Association. Genau explains the details of the Ruins of the King's Tomb, including the dungeon's lord, the Spiegel, and he considers the Spiegel as the reason why the dungeon has never been fully mapped. He then answers Falsch's question about why Sense chose this location for her exam, explaining that it requires examinees to work together—a fitting choice for a pacifist like her.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Final Stage):
Genau is present with other first-class mages when Serie arrives and gathers them in her room at the Northern Branch of the Continental Magic Association, where she announces changes to the final exam.

Divine Revolte Arc:
At some point, Genau and his unnamed first-class mage partner are tasked with exterminating demons across the Northern Plateau. Upon encountering the Divine Revolte, his partner loses his life while protecting a child, resulting in their failure to subjugate the demon general. At his partner's funeral, Genau shows no emotion, and when Serie talks about the man's kindheartedness being the reason for his death, Genau merely responds with empty words. To this, Serie tells Genau that he should never change his uncaring nature.
Soon after, Methode is called on by Serie to accompany Genau on policing the Northern Plateau to replace his deceased partner. In response to Methode's greeting, Genau simply tells her to not hold him back. Serie commands them to shake hands. Genau asks Methode if she is a good person, and he wonders out loud why Methode was chosen over Übel, as he considers Übel to only care for battle like himself.

After Genau and Methode arrive at the location of the mission, Genau realizes that Serie has sent him to his old hometown. Fern also receives a subjugation request from the Continental Magic Association and arrives with Frieren and Stark to assist Genau and Methode. While Methode, Frieren, and Fern seek out possible demon locations, Genau and Stark remain at the village, as Genau wants to protect the villagers' corpses. Stark stays behind to help him despite the fact that the mages will not have a warrior to protect them.

While camping at the village, Genau and Stark are ambushed by the Divine Revolte, where they quickly subdue him. However, Revolte's assistant—a demon disguised as a child—reveals herself, causing Genau to rush over and protect her after Revolte throws a sword at her. Genau is subsequently stabbed in the abdomen by the demon child, but he quickly recovers and kills her. Genau and Stark manage to break Revolte's swords, at which point Revolte pierces them both with his bare hands and claims his victory. Genau responds that humans are far more tenacious than Revolte can imagine, and Stark and Genau cut Revolte down. After both receive treatment for their wounds from Methode, Methode asks if Genau is bothered by her prioritization of Stark. Genau denies this, saying Stark did well.
While Genau and Methode are giving their farewells, Genau thanks Frieren and her party for their help with Methode's reminder.

Relationships:
Sense:
Genau and Sense are both first-class mages and proctors of the First-Class Mage Exam, and both seem to be familiar and at odds with each others' examination style. Genau claims that Sense's exam is cruel in its difficulty, while Sense responds that she does not wish for the examinees' deaths at the very least.

Genau's former partner:
Genau previously had a first-class mage partner who was also assigned the duty of exterminating demons across the Northern Plateau. Genau and Serie both note that he was exceptionally kind, and Genau mentioned that his partner had treated him like they were close friends. While Genau initially seemed completely indifferent to his partner's death, he recalls his partner's death and attitude during his rematch with the Divine Revolte.

Methode:
Genau was initially unwelcoming to Methode, refusing to properly reciprocate her greeting at first. However, at the end of the subjugation of the Divine Revolte, Genau appears more willing to listen to Methode, even following her behest to show gratitude to Frieren and her party.

Serie:
As one of Serie's apprentices, Genau carries out Serie's requests for the Continental Magic Association. Genau also shows a strong reverence of Serie during the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, where he refuses to believe any mage could break Serie's barrier.

Abilities:
Spell to manipulate niello wings: Digardnacht: Genau's signature magic, which allows him to create a pair of wings from niello. These wings are sharp and enable Genau to both attack at close quarters and defend. These wings also afford him extra mobility.
Bird control magic: Genau is able to control birds, which he uses for surveillance and to gather intel.
Barrier magic: After the massacre of his hometown, Genau sets up a barrier around the corpses to prevent monsters from devouring them. He claims the new barrier should be stronger than the previous barrier.

Trivia:
"Genau" is German for "exact" and "precise," as well as their respective adverb forms.
Genau ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 35th in the first popularity contest. 62nd in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Genau ranked 57th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).