Blei (ブライ, Burai) is a mage who participates in the First-Class Mage Exam. In the first stage of the exam, he is placed in the Seventeenth Party, alongside Edel and Dünste.

Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Affiliation: 17th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Status: Alive
Manga Debut: Chapter 39 (partial appearance), Chapter 46 (full appearance)
Japanese VA: Shinya Takahashi
English VA: Brent Mukai

Personality:
Not much is known about Blei's personality. Throughout the First-Class Mage Exam, he listens to Edel's orders without complaint and follows her around Äußerst after the first stage of the exam. He is willing to question authorities, as shown when he asks Sense whether she intends for them to all fail the second stage of the exam. He is level-headed in stressful situations. When their party is cornered by Sense's Spiegel clone, Blei is the one to bring up that they cannot conceal their mana forever, and is also the one to ask whether Edel's hypnosis magic would be able to work on Sense. Though Edel brings up that Blei cannot imagine defeating Sense, he remains optimistic that with Edel's hypnosis magic, the situation is not hopeless.
When Blei and Dünste attempt to escape from Sense's Spiegel clone, Blei chooses to hold the Spiegel back himself and give Dünste an opportunity to escape, showing his self-sacrificial nature.

Appearance:
Blei is a tall, bald mage with a goatee. He wears long, light-colored robes tied with a rope at the waist and a long black overcoat. Around his neck, he wears a light colored cowl.

Synopsis:
First-Class Mage Exam Arc (First Stage):
Blei is one of the participants in the First-Class Mage Exam held in Äußerst. In the first stage of the exam, he is placed in the Seventeenth Party alongside Edel and Dünste. They are one of the parties who have the idea of waiting by the lake for Stille to appear. When Lawine freezes the lake over, he questions what her party is up to. After the lake is frozen over, not realizing that a Stille will not approach a body of water that has been disturbed by so much mana, he listens to Edel's instructions to melt the lake, and attempts to do so by shooting a continuous stream of fire at the lake. It is unknown how the Seventeenth Party fares for the rest of the first stage, but they are eventually able to capture a Stille that lands on a collapsed Dünste's back, thus allowing them to successfully pass the first stage of the exam.
Between the first and second stage of the exam, Blei and Dünste are seen walking around Äußerst with Edel when they receive the note with details on the second exam.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Second Stage):
In the second stage of the exam, after Sense explains the conditions to pass—reach the innermost depths of the Ruins of the King's Tomb—Blei brings up that the ruins are an unmapped dungeon from which many adventurers have never returned alive. He questions if Sense intends for everyone to fail, but he is chastised by Sense who states that a first-class mage must keep going forward even when the path is unexplored or untrodden. After Sense begins the exam, he, Edel, and Dünste enter the dungeon together. They make it partway through the dungeon, but then they are cornered by the Spiegel clone of Sense. As they hunch behind a pillar together, Edel expresses that it's a miracle they've managed to escape from everything so far. Blei questions what the Sense clone is, and brings up that they can only conceal their mana and hide for so long, meaning they have no choice but to fight the clone of Sense soon. Edel states that Blei cannot imagine defeating Sense, nor can he even fight in the dungeon, but he remains hopeful that Edel's hypnosis magic could work on the clone. When the clone proves to not have a mind, thus rendering Edel's magic useless, he stays behind to buy time for Dünste to escape, then breaks his escape bottle golem. Afterwards, he is seen gathered outside with the rest of the mages that failed the second stage of the exam.

Abilities:
Not much is known about Blei's abilities. In the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, he casts a fire spell in order to try to melt the lake that Lawine has frozen over. He is able to hold off Sense's Spiegel clone long enough for Dünste to escape, though Edel states that he cannot even fight within the Ruins of the King's Tomb. This indicates that Blei uses modern magic, which manipulates or changes elements that are nearby, and those elements cannot be found within the dungeon.

Trivia:
Blei is German for the metal "lead."
His outfit and shaved head may be based on the appearance of a monk.
Blei ranked the following in the official popularity polls: Tied with Ton for 81st in the first popularity contest. 80th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Blei ranked 84th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).