Kanne (カンネ, Kanne) is a third-class mage who participated in the First-Class Mage Exam, where she was paired with Frieren and her childhood friend Lawine for the first stage of the exam.

Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Third-Class
Affiliation: Academy of Magic (formerly), 2nd Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Orange
Eye Color: Brown
Manga Debut: Chapter 37 (partial appearance), Chapter 38 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 18
Japanese VA: Azumi Waki
English VA: Madeleine Morris

Personality:
Kanne is bright, friendly, and easy-going. She is able to chat easily with Frieren and Fern when she meets them. However, she can be timid and a little scared at times, such as when originally trying to practice Flight magic. She is the type to improve with praise, though Lawine claims this is a result of being spoiled by her parents growing up. According to Lawine, Kanne tries really hard even though she is a coward, works hard when others aren't looking, and is considerate of others.

Appearance:
Kanne is a young, petite girl of similar stature to Frieren. She has orange eyes and short orange hair, which is styled into uneven bangs and two pigtails with strands that reach the bottom of her face. When she lets down her hair, it gets slightly wavy and reaches the edge of her face.
Her usual outfit is composed of a cropped white top with puffy sleeves that reach her elbows and bright green shorts with a white belt. The top is decorated with bright green edges and has shoulder cutouts and triangle-shaped cutouts near her chest and on her back. She additionally wears white over-the-knee boots.
When casting spells as a mage, Kanne uses a long, straight staff with a jeweled center and three prongs that are reminiscent of crystals.

Synopsis:
History:
According to Lawine, Kanne was spoiled by her parents growing up. She and Lawine have been friends from childhood. At some point, she attended the Academy of Magic with Lawine. During flight magic training, Kanne was paralyzed by fear and was stuck on the cliff while the rest of their class moved on. Lawine remained with her and attempted to praise her to encourage her. However, when Kanne called one of her compliments creepy, Lawine kicked her off the cliff and towards the water below. This ended up being the push Kanne needed to use her flight magic and served as an example of how Lawine had always encouraged her.

First-Class Mage Exam:
First Stage:
Kanne is one of the participants in the First-Class Mage Exam in Äußerst. In the first stage of the exam, she is placed in the Second Party with Frieren and her childhood friend Lawine. Kanne and Lawine spend a lot of time bickering and fighting with each other. However, once they encounter a Stille, she and Lawine and able to perfectly coordinate their spells in order to trap the Stille in ice. However, this is for naught, as the robust Stille is easily able to escape. After, the party spends time observing Stilles for information. Later that night, Kanne awakens due to a noise she cannot place and sees that Frieren has left the campsite. She wanders into the woods in search of Frieren, but her weakness in mana detection means that she is ambushed by a Geisel that knocks away her staff. In fright, she calls out for Lawine, before the timely arrival of Frieren saves her. Frieren and Kanne have a conversation where Frieren asks about her and Lawine's relationship, and Kanne tells Frieren that they are close despite how their relationship may seem. She then tells Frieren about the sound she heard—rain falling against the antimatter barrier erected around the exam grounds. Frieren formulates a plan with the new information.
The next day, the three of them review the information they have learned about the Stille. Frieren then explains her plan to capture the Stille, and the three of them decide to enact it. Taking advantage of fact that water cannot cross the barrier around the exam grounds, thus leaving the rivers dry and preventing rainfall from making its way inside, they plan to pour mana into all of the bodies of water they can find with Kanne and Lawine's spells, then have Frieren wait near a body of water with no mana. The mana-sensitive Stilles are more likely to approach a body of water with no mana, thus allowing Frieren to use her spell to capture a bird. Kanne runs across the exam grounds, pouring her mana into whatever pools of water she comes across. The party then rendezvouses and Kanne and Lawine hide until Frieren is able to capture a Stille. However, the Thirteenth Party has been waiting for the moment when Frieren releases her mana; as soon as they sense it, Laufen uses Jilwer to steal the Stille away. They then engage in battle with the Thirteenth Party. Richter uses Bargland in order to raise a plateau and separate Kanne and Lawine from Frieren. They attempt to put up a fight against Richter, but their difference in mana and ability is too great, and he knocks both Kanne and Lawine down. Lawine attempts to threaten Richter, but he tells both of them to stay down, as his job is to babysit them, not kill them. They watch Frieren's fight versus Denken from atop the plateau. However, once Frieren defeats Denken and reclaims the Stille from Laufen, they are forced to fight Richter again.
Though they are outmatched against Richter, Frieren has deciphered the barrier that Serie has erected around the exam grounds and breaks it. This allows the rain to pour down within the barrier. Frieren states that she cannot envision defeating a mage that manipulates water in the rain, and asks Denken whether Richter could. Up above, on the plateau, Lawine is finally able to freeze a shaken Richter's hands to the ground, thus giving Kanne and opening to attack him. Kanne gathers up a huge sphere of rainwater using her water manipulation spell, Reamstroha, and drops it onto Richter, easily crushing his defense magic and defeating him. After, they leave the scene with Frieren, who has secured the Stille, and proceed to hide until sunset. They are one of the six parties that pass the first stage of the exam.
Between the first and second stage of the exam, Kanne and Lawine are seen together in Äußerst. Kanne watches from atop a wall as Wirbel and Scharf scout for a warrior. Then, when Lawine shows up garbed in fancy clothes, Kanne compliments her, stating that Lawine looks even prettier than usual. She then gets down on one knee and takes Lawine's hand, cheekily stating that since Lawine is all dressed up, Kanne will be her escort today. This prompts Lawine to sit on her back and pull her pigtails. The two then proceed to go to the same bakery that Frieren, Fern, and Stark are at. Kanne states that meeting Frieren here is good timing, as she had planned to visit Frieren at her inn later. She then buys a basket of treats from the bakery. The two of them tag along with Frieren's Party. Once Wirbel accosts Stark and Fern tells him to take Stark away, Kanne asks whether it's okay to do that, as Wirbel had been an opponent in the first stage of the exam. The four of them then return to Frieren and Fern's inn room, where Kanne presents Frieren with the basket of treats as gratitude for helping her and Lawine pass the first stage of the exam. They then sit and eat treats together, with Kanne's treats restoring Fern's mood. A bird then arrives with details about the second stage of the exam. Kanne and Lawine both bemoan that their chosen proctor is Sense, as she has not passed anyone in the last four exams that she proctored.

Second Stage:
In the second stage of the exam, Kanne and Lawine head into the Ruins of the King's Tomb together. They are able to make it far into the dungeon thanks to information that Lawine has from her eldest brother, who was part of the advance party that the Continental Magic Association sent to raid the ruins. They come across the group that has teamed up near the innermost depths of the dungeon and join them. When Richter questions why they didn't team up initially if they had intel, Kanne comments that Frieren and Fern were gone by the time they realized teaming up was an option. When Fern reveals Frieren's weakness to the rest of the group, Kanne and Lawine are both unable to see what Frieren's weakness is. They join the rest of the group in formulating a strategy to clear the dungeon. Each of the mages reveals who their worst matchup amongst the other mages would be, and that mage is sent to fight the Spiegel clone of themselves. Kanne and Dünste team up to fight the clone of Richter. After Frieren and Fern defeat the Spiegel clone of Frieren, they reconvene at the chamber in the depths of the dungeon, where Sense tells them that they have passed the second stage of the exam.
After the second stage, Kanne and Lawine stand atop a wall overlooking the city together. Kanne muses that three years until the next exam is a long time. A visibly glum Lawine tells Kanne that if she plans on making fun of her, to do so already. However, recognizing that Lawine doesn't want to be made fun of, Kanne comforts Lawine with a pat on her head. Frieren then approaches the two mages, asking them where the best repair shop in town is.

Third Stage:
In the third stage of the exam, Kanne is the first to be interviewed by Serie. Serie immediately fails her when she enters the exam room. Kanne hesitantly asks why, and Serie tells her that even now, she is afraid of Serie's mana. She cannot visualize herself becoming a first-class mage, and in the world of magic, what cannot be envisioned cannot be. Afterwards, Kanne sits on the steps of the Northern Continental Magic Association alone, musing that the next exam will be in three more years.
After the privilege conferment ceremony, Kanne and Lawine see Frieren's Party off when they leave Äußerst. Despite failing, the two are in high spirits. They thank Frieren for all her help and tell her that they'll try again in three years. The two of them remain in Äußerst, and are later seen watching the city from the walls again.

The Golden Land:
In Edel's memories, she runs into Kanne and Lawine on the streets in Äußerst some time after the First-Class Mage Exam. Edel admires the pastries Kanne and Lawine have bought from the bakery close by. Kanne has chosen a pastry in the shape of a kitty. When Lawine takes a huge bite out of her own pastry, a bunny, Kanne hugs her around her middle and begs her to show more love to cute things.

Relationships:
Lawine:
Kanne grew up with Lawine and the two attended and graduated from the same Academy of Magic. They frequently clash and fight each other physically, a long-standing habit, and their fights usually consist of Lawine grabbing and pulling Kanne's pigtails while pinning her on the ground. They also verbally assault each other, including calling each other names and shutting down the others' ideas if they deem them unnecessary or useless.
Despite their unruliness with each other, the two mages are very well versed in coordinating their attacks due to the level of trust they have between them. Additionally, they regularly train together and maintain substantial familiarity with each others' strengths and weaknesses. The coordination and cooperation the two exhibit, along with the ability they have to perfectly time attacks with each other without any hesitation, impresses even Frieren.
Although Kanne constantly voices her hatred of Lawine, she regards her as a good friend and depends on her in times of need. Likewise, Lawine supports Kanne through various methods such as praise or force when she is unable to move forward on her own due to lack of confidence or fright. Kanne expresses gratefulness for her actions, as they have allowed her to improve herself and her resolve.

Abilities:
Water Manipulation Magic: Reamstroha: Kanne is proficient at manipulating bodies of water using this spell. This makes her a situationally powerful mage under rain or near large bodies of water where she can use it to overwhelm enemies through sheer force or in conjunction with Lawine, who can freeze said water.
Offensive magic: Zoltraak: When no water is present, Kanne is able to fight using the basic offense spell.
Defensive magic: The standard defensive spell used by most modern mages. When fighting alongside Lawine, Kanne used this spell to protect both of them.

Trivia:
Kanne is German for "jug" or "pitcher."
Kanne's best matchup amongst the other mages in the second stage of the exam is Richter.
Kanne's worst matchup amongst the other mages in the second stage of the exam is Lawine. This may be because Lawine is able to freeze the water that Kanne manipulates, thus preventing her from using it.
Kanne's choice of animal pastry is a kitty.
Kanne ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 42nd in the first popularity contest. 30th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Kanne ranked 25th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).