Böse (ベーゼ, Bēze), also known as Böse the Immortal (不死なるベーゼ, Fushinaru bēze), was one of the Seven Sages of Destruction. Böse, along with the other Sages of Destruction, fought against the Hero of the South. Though he survived the encounter, he was ultimately defeated by the Hero Party.

Aliases: Böse the Immortal
Gender: Male
Species: Demon
Class: Mage
Rank: Sage of Destruction (七崩賢), Greater Demon (大魔族)
Affiliation: Seven Sages of Destruction
Status: Deceased

Personality:
Not much is known about Böse's personality. Like all other demons, he was proud of his own magic. This lead him to be especially wary of Frieren after she broke through his insurmountable barrier and caused him to disregard the rest of the Hero Party. When Himmel struck him fatally from behind, Böse reacted in disbelief. According to Himmel's assessment, Böse's downfall was due to his underestimation of humanity.

Appearance:
Böse has long, choppy, light colored hair that stretches to his lower back. Like all demons, he has two horns protruding from his head. Böse's horns are thick and point downwards. They curve upwards and then downwards before tapering at the tip. Böse is seen wearing a helmet covering his entire head, large pauldrons with a flower motif decorating them, and a gorget protecting his neck and chest. He also wears a long, dark cape.

Synopsis:
History:
At some point, Böse ascended to being one of the Seven Sages of Destruction. He was known as Böse the Immortal. He fought against the Hero of the South along with the other Sages of Destruction and Schlacht the Omniscient. Böse survived the battle.

At some point during the ten-year journey of the Hero Party, Böse confronted the party and trapped them within his barrier magic. However, through their combined efforts, the Hero Party was able to break Böse's barrier. As Frieren was the one who ultimately dispelled the barrier, this caused Böse to focus his attention on her throughout the ensuing battle, which gave Himmel the opportunity to attack and kill him from behind. Böse expressed shock at his defeat.
After his defeat, stories would begin to circulate about Böse's defeat at the hands of the Hero Party, some of which would later be compiled into books and circulated throughout the Northern Lands.

Abilities:
As one of Seven Sages of Destruction, Böse is a demon possessing magic that surpasses humanity's knowledge and reason.

Spells:
Barrier magic: (結界魔法, Kekkai mahō) Böse could create extremely powerful barriers, and these barriers were considered by Frieren to be unbreakable by humankind. His magic enclosed a space with barriers composed of square grids. However, his barriers were not completely impervious to physical attacks and could be chipped by an exceptionally strong Hero or Warrior. Additionally, Frieren was ultimately able to break his barrier with support from the Hero Party.

Trivia:
"Böse" is German for "bad" and "wicked," up to "pure evil," depending on the context it is used in.
Böse ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 71st in the first popularity contest. 105th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Böse ranked 107th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).