Heiter (ハイター, Haitā) was the human priest of the Hero Party. After the Hero Party was dissolved, he returned to the Holy City of Strahl and eventually became a bishop. In his last remaining years, he adopted the orphan Fern and raised her. When Frieren came to visit him twenty years after Himmel's death, he asked Frieren to adopt Fern and train her as her apprentice.

Aliases: Corrupt Priest (Hero Party)
Gender: Male
Age: Around 100
Species: Human
Class: Priest
Rank: Bishop
Affiliation: Hero Party
Relatives: Fern (adoptive daughter)
Status: Deceased
Hair Color: Green
Eye Color: Brown
Manga Debut: Chapter 1
Anime Debut: Episode 1
Japanese VA: Hiroki Tochi
English VA: Jason Douglas

Personality:
Heiter was an outwardly cheerful man who often diffused tense situations with his laughter and jokes about his inclination towards alcohol. He was easily moved to tears, both when things happened to the party or when he was hungover. However, inwardly, Heiter was shown to be cynical about circumstances such as the Hero Party's odds of defeating the Demon King, and, as a child, this manifested in jealousy towards Himmel, where he would often outwardly expressed his doubts about being able to defeat monsters or even the Demon King. However, he eventually decided that even if he could not believe in himself, he would believe in Himmel and later, their comrades.

As Himmel notes, from a young age, Heiter has always been very pious regarding Heaven and the Goddess of Creation.
Heiter was known to be a frequent liar and was shown to be shrewd at times, as he was able to leverage Frieren's perception of time to trick her into staying and training Fern long enough for her to become a mage capable of traveling with Frieren.

Appearance:
Heiter was a rather tall and bespectacled priest with short green hair that he kept slicked back. Two strands of his hair flew loose over his forehead. Similar to most priests, Heiter wore a long, black robe with gold trims and accents. Underneath his robe, Heiter wore a long black shirt with a white top and gold accents, a gold belt, and a black-and-gold collar alongside black pants and shoes.

Upon becoming a bishop, Heiter switched to a white robe with a shoulder cape and collar that had prominent gold accents on the edges and cuffs. Additionally, he wore a white dress underneath his robe that reached his ankles and was tied with the same gold belt. He paired his bishop attire with white pants and black shoes.

After growing older and retiring, Heiter's hair grew lighter and he gained prominent wrinkles. He had a hunched back and used a wooden walking stick. When bedridden, he wore a simple nightgown.

Abilities:
Heiter is an accomplished priest and a member of the Hero Party, having raised to the rank of bishop in the Holy City.

Mana detection: Heiter could accurately gauge the mana of other mages, estimating that Frieren's mana was around a fifth of his own mana when he first met her, although he did not appear to realize her mana was restrained at the time. Later, Heiter was also able to detect that Frieren was restraining her mana, a feat that even a Sage of Destruction, Aura the Guillotine, was not able to accomplish. He would later use this knowledge of restraining mana when raising Fern to be a mage.

Immense mana output: Heiter has a rather large mana pool. Having deemed Frieren, who had restrained her mana, to have around a fifth of his own mana upon first meeting her, he can be estimated to already possess 500 years worth of mana training as a young adult.

Spells:
Goddess's Magic: As a priest, Heiter is capable of utilizing Magic of the Goddess from Holy Scriptures.
Blessing of The Goddess: Given that Heiter is a priest, he has a natural resistance to curses. This ability, also known as the "Blessing of the Goddess" or the "Goddess's Divine Grace," was shown when Grausam used his curse on Himmel, Frieren, and Heiter, with Heiter only staggering for a bit before getting back up while the other two were incapacitated. Grausam notes that Heiter must be especially pious to resist his curse, as Heiter is the first priest he has encountered that is capable of withstanding his magic.

Healing magic: Heiter is shown to be able to heal wounds using the scriptures.

Spell that allows survival without food, water, or oxygen: Heiter can cast a supportive spell that allows the individuals affected to not need food, water, or oxygen to survive. Heiter can maintain this spell for around two months.

Spell to prevent trigger of mana detection: Heiter has a stealth spell that makes those affected by the spell unable to be perceived by mana detection. It is cast in a circle around Heiter.

Trivia:
"Heiter" in German means "cheerful," but it can also mean "one quarter cloudy" (in the context of sky/weather) and "tipsy, slightly drunk." This may allude to three aspects of his character: his outer personality, his friendship with Himmel, and his love for alcohol.
The Hero Party's nickname for Heiter was "corrupt priest," as he loved drinking alcohol despite being a priest.
Heiter is a picky eater, often giving his vegetables to Frieren.
According to the spin-off The Adventures of the Hero Himmel, Heiter can cast "Three Spears of the Goddess." However, this has not been exhibited in the official manga.
Heiter ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 11th in the first popularity contest. 34th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Heiter ranked 17th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).