Ehre (エーレ, Ēre) is a second-class mage that participates in the First-Class Mage Exam. In the first exam, she is placed in the eighth party alongside Wirbel and Scharf. Fern considers her to be the strongest within both the fourth and eighth parties.

Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Second-Class
Affiliation: Academy of Magic (formerly), 8th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Relatives: Lernen (Grandfather)
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Brown
Eye Color: Dark Brown
Manga Debut: Chapter 39 (partial appearance), Chapter 41 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 19
Japanese VA: Kanae Ito
English VA: Trina Nishimura

Personality:
Ehre maintains a cool and collected façade. She remains relatively emotionless and speaks in an even cadence. In fights, she is analytical of her opponents and calmly attacks and dodges. However, once she is met with an attack she isn't expecting, her façade quickly cracks. She is easily overwhelmed by surprises that she doesn't readily know how to handle. When low on mana, Ehre shows a much more petulant and childish side, getting angry when Wirbel attempts to float her and demanding a piggy-back ride from him. Despite her outward appearance, she is friendly towards her party, hanging out with them even outside of the exam. She readily extends offers of kindness, such as when she offered to introduce her grandfather to Wirbel when he complains about having to take the sea-route back north if he fails the First-Class Mage Exam.

Appearance:
Ehre has wavy, shoulder-length brown hair and dark brown eyes. She wears a long white tunic belted at the waist, a long, dark green skirt, and black boots. Her tunic is long sleeved, covers the neck, and has simple green lining on the sleeves. It is pleated down the middle in the front. Atop the tunic and skirt, Ehre wears a purple cape clasped with a green jewel at the front.
When she was younger, Ehre's hair fell to middle back. She wore a pink shirt and a white skirt tied at the back with a bow.
When fighting, Ehre uses a metallic staff. Her staff is long, with a single large ring suspended at the top, and thin discs around the handle of the staff at the base and top.

Synopsis:
History:
When Ehre was younger, her village in the north was attacked by demons. Wirbel was one of the humans who defeated the demons attacking her village.

First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage):
Ehre is one of the participants of the First-Class Mage Exam in Äußerst. During the first stage of the exam, she is placed in the eighth party with Wirbel and Scharf. Their party has no luck finding a Stille, so they decide to ambush a party that has already captured a Stille and steal it. After Wirbel's surprise attack against the fourth party is blocked, she rushes in along with the rest of her party and faces off against Fern. After Land calls for the fourth party to scatter, Ehre faces Fern alone.

During their battle, she stays above Fern with flight magic and uses Doragate to try to break Fern's defensive spells. While fighting Fern, Ehre begins to feel uneasy, as Fern fights like a seasoned mage and reminds her of fighting against her grandfather. She asks if Fern is trying to not show her hand by only using basic offensive and defensive spells, and she tells Fern that she would not last long in a fight against Wirbel. However, Fern believes Ehre to be the strongest mage of both their parties. Ehre hesitates before replying that Wirbel, who is the captain of the Northern Magic Corps, has much more experience in fighting. His magic is vulgar and cowardly, but it is extremely effective, and Ehre believes that the girl fighting Wirbel is likely to be killed. However, this taunt does not affect Fern, who immediately strikes at Ehre with a saturation attack. Ehre is unable to withstand the barrage of Zoltraak spells, and she is forced to use an omnidirectional defensive barrier. As Fern's attack continues, Ehre becomes visibly rattled as she draws her defensive barriers closer to herself. She exclaims that she cannot handle so many spells, before buckling under the force of a large explosion of mana.
After defeating Ehre, Fern interrupts Wirbel's battle with Übel and tells Wirbel that she has killed Ehre; hearing this, Wirbel decides to spare Übel, as their party has already been disqualified.

When Wirbel goes to retrieve Ehre's body, he finds that Fern has not killed Ehre at all, and instead, Ehre has merely been knocked out. Annoyed at the lie, he tells Ehre to wake up, and he calls Ehre lame for running out of mana since she was the top student at the Academy of Magic. Ehre explains that she was overwhelmed by the sheer force of ordinary offensive spells, though she expects Wirbel to not believe her. However, seeing the path of destruction that Fern's attack has left, Wirbel responds that he does. He tells Ehre that he does not understand why she fought Fern head-on like an idiot, as it was a battle she could have won. Wirbel tells her that they were to regroup with Scharf, but Ehre tells him that she cannot walk. Wirbel smiles, calling her a pain, before he floats her with a spell; Ehre then exclaims at him to not treat her like an object and demands a piggy-back ride. This elicits genuine annoyance from Wirbel, but he acquiesces nonetheless and carries her on his back while they find Scharf.

When they discover that Scharf, too, has run out of mana and cannot walk on his own, Wirbel bemoans that their failure in the exam is absolute. Ehre hears a sound and wonders what it is; Wirbel replies that it is probably raining outside the barrier, which is fitting for his mental state. He lays out the facts of their situation: it is two or three hours before sunset, and they have two party members that can no longer fight, making the odds of them being able to steal a Stille low. Ehre points out that despite this, Wirbel has chosen to help her and Scharf, to which Wirbel retorts that he could ditch them.

Ehre continues, asking whether kindness was the reason why Wirbel fought demons and reminds him that when she was younger, he had saved her village from a demon attack. Wirbel calls this notion ridiculous, as he believes people do not risk their lives out of kindness. For him, the motivation to fight demons came from a girl in his hometown he had a crush on, who fled his hometown to the Central Lands because of the increase in demon activity in the north. Wanting to look cool, he promised his crush he would kill all the demons in the north so she could return. However, as this happened when he was four or five years old, he no longer even remembers her face or her name. Hearing this, Ehre smiles and calls him a fool. Wirbel then bemoans that he must go home by boat again, as he gets horrible seasickness. Ehre offers to introduce him to her grandfather, a first-class mage, who could take him by land. She cuts herself off as, in that moment, she spots a Stille. Wirbel catches it with Sorganeil, and he wonders what the point of all their effort was.

Before the first exam ends, the eighth party are seen still walking around with Ehre on Wirbel's back and Scharf getting levitated. They are one of the six parties to pass the first stage of the exam.
It is unknown what Ehre does during the time between the first and second stage of the exam in Äußerst. She is seen meditating alone in a forest when the messenger birds deliver news of Sense's second exam.

First-Class Mage Exam (Second Stage):
During the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, Ehre enters the Ruins of the King's Tomb with Wirbel and Scharf. They walk along a twisting series of pillars when Ehre is restrained by Sorganeil. She warns the rest of the party that they are being ambushed by three mages that have concealed their mana. Wirbel throws up a shield and blocks an attack meant for the party. He explains to them how Sorganeil works— the user must have their target in full vision—and tells Scharf to block their sight using his flower petals. From behind the barrier, they watch as the Spiegel clone versions of their party approach them. Wirbel assigns roles to the team, and he tells Ehre to take care of the clone Wirbel.

After defeating the clones, they are found by Methode, who conveys to them the plan that the examinees gathered at the depths of the dungeon have decided upon. Methode asks for their assistance in defeating Denken, who she expects to be one of the more troublesome clones. Methode explains that she will fight the clone of Fern on her own. Ehre warns Methode that Fern is strong, and asks if she will be okay alone, but Methode assures her she will be fine. Ehre fights Denken alongside Scharf and Wirbel for the rest of the exam. After the Spiegel's defeat by Frieren and Fern, she is shown sitting on the floor complaining that she can't move. Wirbel gives her a piggy-back ride to the treasury room in the depths of the dungeon, where Sense announces that all the gathered participants have passed the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam.

First-Class Mage Exam (Final Stage):
Ehre gathers with the rest of the examinees that passed the second stage of the exam in front of the doors of the Northern Continental Magic Association in Äußerst. Falsch informs them that the exam will be an interview with Serie. Ehre is the fifth mage that Serie interviews. She is summarily failed for not possessing what Serie determines to be the qualities of a first-class mage. After the third stage, she is shown standing outside the doors of the Continental Magic Association while Wirbel comforts Scharf.
After the privilege conferment ceremony, Ehre and Scharf convince Wirbel to go back to the north with them. They watch from the side while Wirbel talks to Frieren about the Hero Himmel. The day after the privilege conferment ceremony, Ehre introduces Wirbel and Scharf to her grandfather, Lernen. The three then leave Äußerst together.

Continued Northern Travels:
Shortly after the First-Class Mage Exam, Wirbel, Ehre, and Scharf rest at an inn at the fork in the road in the Great Sanft Forest. The road forks off to the Northern Plateau and the Neutral Harbor. They have drinks and a meal in the inn when Frieren's Party walks in, and Wirbel goes to greet them. He explains that because demonic activity in the north has suddenly increased, they will be traveling by sea again, and he will be with Ehre and Scharf until they reach the port town in the Imperial Capital. Ehre joins their conversation and adds that Wirbel has been whining about not wanting to get seasickness. Wirbel then asks Frieren to let him convince Stark to join him in the Northern Frontier. Ehre spends the rest of the time with Wirbel, Scharf, and Stark. According to Frieren, they look to be having a good time. The next day, they bid Frieren's Party goodbye, and Ehre departs towards the Neutral Harbor with Wirbel and Scharf.

Relationships:
Wirbel:
Wirbel and Ehre have a friendly relationship. They both possess knowledge about each others' feats and appear to respect each other as mages. Ehre describes Wirbel's magic as having no character and is under no qualms about his attitude about killing. Wirbel, meanwhile, has higher expectations of Ehre due to her position as a top graduate from the Academy of Magic. Though she loses against Fern, Wirbel still thinks highly of her abilities, and he tells her that it was a match that she could have won had she not fought Fern head on.
Ehre shows a much more childish side around Wirbel, and although Wirbel expresses his annoyance at her requests, he acquiesces to them anyway. Wirbel fought against the demons attacking her village and saved the village when she was a child. On Ehre's part, she expresses curiosity at his motivation for fighting demons like the ones that invaded her village, and though she calls his reason foolish, her remark is good-natured and Wirbel doesn't take offense. Upon hearing about his seasickness, Ehre offers to introduce Wirbel to her grandfather, a first-class mage, should they fail the exam. During the second stage of the exam, Ehre enters the Ruins of the King's Tomb with Wirbel and Scharf. After the First-Class Mage Exam, Scharf and Ehre convince Wirbel to travel to the harbor with them, showing that they have become fairly familiar with one another.

Lernen:
Lernen is Ehre's first-class mage grandfather that she mentioned during the first stage of the exam. She introduces him to Wirbel and Scharf after the First-Class Mage Exam. Presumably, they have a good relationship, as Lernen is willing to take time out of his duties in Äußerst to meet Ehre, and Ehre is confident that she can introduce Wirbel to Lernen should he need a way to travel by land through the Northern Plateau.

Abilities:
Ehre is a second-class mage who graduated top of her class from the Academy of Magic.
High mana output: Ehre is noted to have a high mana capacity relative to her peers on several occasions. She was immediately assumed to be the most powerful amongst the fourth and eighth parties by Fern and able to easily overwhelm Wirbel and Scharf's mana by the former's own assessment. She is often seen employing flight throughout the First-Class Mage Exam, a spell mages usually use sparingly to conserve mana.

Spells:
Change rocks into bullets: Doragate (石を弾丸に変える魔法, Doragāte): A form of offense magic that Ehre uses, where she floats in the air using flight magic and levitates several small rocks around her. She then shoots these rocks towards her enemy as a projectile. Fern describes the attack as being like a cannon.
Basic defense magic (防御魔法, Bōgyo mahō): Ehre demonstrates competency at basic defensive magic. However, when Fern attacks her with a swarm of offensive magic, she is unable to withstand the onslaught.

Trivia:
Ehre is German for "honor."
Ehre's grandfather is Lernen.
Ehre ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 55th in the first popularity contest. 32nd in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Ehre ranked 34th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).