Sein (ザイン, Zain), also referred to as Goatee Priest (僧侶アゴヒゲ, Sōryo Agohige), is a Priest from a small village in the Alt Woods. After Frieren noticed his talent, he joined her group for a period of time with the goal of reuniting with his childhood friend, Gorilla.

Aliases: Goatee Priest
Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Priest
Affiliation: Frieren's Party
Relatives: Unnamed parents (deceased), Unnamed older brother
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Brown
Eye Color: Green
Manga Debut: Chapter 27
Anime Debut: Episode 13
Japanese VA: Yuichi Nakamura, Natsumi Kawaida (young)
English VA: Christopher Wehkamp

Personality:
Sein has an easygoing personality and constantly sports a deadpan expression. He is very astute with human emotions. He is quick to understand relationship dynamics, and acts as a mediator and an adult figure to Frieren's Party, often giving Stark and Fern advice to help facilitate their conciliation.
Sein lives his life with a lot of regret and guilt, from feeling like he needs to stay in the village for his brother's sake, to not taking his childhood friend's offer to go on an adventure. Since meeting Frieren, he has become more determined, and decides to not live with any more regret, which he demonstrates through his willingness to depart from Frieren's Party to follow his goal of finding his friend.
Sein considers himself a "dirty adult," and thus often is not honest with his feelings with others.

Appearance:
Sein is in his thirties. He is tall and well built. He has shoulder length brown hair which he ties into a low ponytail, with a long bang that reaches the middle of his cheek and is split in the middle.
He wears a turtleneck underlayer with a long white robe with an embroidered collar on top, and long black pants underneath. For warmer weather, he wears a dark green coat with a golden accent. The coat is tied together by a belt at the empire waist. For cold weather, he puts on a longer jacket that is also in green color.

Abilities:
Sein is a talented priest, stated to be naturally gifted according to Frieren. He was able to easily cure poisons that his brother, a priest who was deemed worthy of becoming a priest of the Holy City by the bishop, Heiter, deemed uncurable.

Spells:
Magic of the Goddess: As a priest, Sein is capable of utilizing Magic of the Goddess from the scriptures.
Blessing of The Goddess: Sein is naturally gifted to use the Magic of the Goddess and has resistance to curses. He was completely unaffected by the Confusion Flower's sleeping curse, outlasting Stark, Fern, and even Frieren, who all eventually succumbed to the curse and fell asleep.
Healing magic: Sein is shown to be able to heal wounds, cure poisons and remove curses.
Three Spears of the Goddess: Sein can use Three Spears of the Goddess, an offensive Magic of the Goddess spell that shoots three concentrated spears of light at a target.
Awakening Spell: Sein is capable of casting an awakening spell that keeps a target awake for five seconds.

Trivia:
"Sein" is a German deverbal noun from the verb "sein" (to be), meaning "existence."
Sein's church in the village is honorably poor, as his older brother frequently buys miniature size utilities such as a palm-sized bathtub and scythe due to a lack of budget.
Sein is resistant against Frieren's kiss blowing techniques.
Sein smokes and gambles.
Sein keeps a spell book in his chest pocket, and he uses it for casting battle magic.
Sein ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 9th in the first popularity contest with 1,559,179 points. 25th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Sein ranked 10th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).