Denken (デンケン, Denken) is an Imperial Mage and a first-class mage. Born in the Weise Region, he lost both of his parents by demon attacks and was raised by Glück, the feudal lord of Weise. When he was young, he was the apprentice of Macht, who was serving as the personal mage of Glück's family. Because of his wife's frail condition, Denken became a mage in the Imperial army and tried to gain power and influence in hopes of saving her life, but unfortunately she passed away before he could. After the death of his wife and the formation of the Golden Land, Denken had delayed returning to his hometown until it was swallowed up by the Golden Land. Since only first-class mages are allowed to enter the Golden Land, Denken took the First-Class Mage Exam at the same time as Frieren and Fern. He is the oldest examinee that passed that year's exam.

Aliases: Old Man (by Laufen), Lord Denken (by Kanone)
Age: 77 (Chapter 87), ~78-79 (Chapter 105)
Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Second-Class (former), First-Class (Chapter 60)
Affiliation: Imperial Mages, 13th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Relatives: Lektüre (wife, deceased), Glück (father-in-law)
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Brown
Eye Color: Black
Manga Debut: Chapter 37
Anime Debut: Episode 18
Japanese VA: Jiro Saito
English VA: Ben Phillips

Personality:
As an Imperial Mage, Denken is renowned to be a cunning and ruthless politician who reigned supreme in a struggle of power at the Imperial Capital. However, in truth he is quite personable and makes connections with others even to their reluctance, such as going out of his way to approach Richter outside of the First-Class Mage Exam. He is also a rare mage who values coordination and cooperation rather than acting on his own, and was willing to go out of his way to secure allies. Unlike most mages, he does not put too much emphasis in reaching greater heights of power by all means. He believes that the value of magic lies in the pursuit of the magic itself, an opinion which Frieren is in agreement with.
Denken is also a competent leader. He is a careful and contemplative person who keeps his calm and analyzes the situation. In the first stage of the exam, he is the first to figure out Frieren's strategy and coordinated his team's conduct to moderate success. He also manages to form a team for the second stage of the exam, where he expresses dismay at the lack of cooperative spirit among other examinees. During their preparation to fight Macht, Denken is ready to wait for at least three years for Frieren to finish analyzing Macht's Diagoldze, exemplifying both his patience and his persistence.
Lernen, who is his long time friend, describes Denken as a talented and passionate man who stood up for him until the end when he was expelled from his position in the Imperial Army. Although his current conduct may not indicate it, Serie remarks that Denken still retains his passion and vigor in their interview and is impressed enough to let him pass the third stage of the First-Class Mage Exam. He shows he is willing to go to great lengths to get what he wants, namely when he is ready to engage in a fistfight in order to steal a Stille and pass the first stage of the exam. He is also willing to aim for feats which exceed his abilities, such as challenging Frieren in the first stage of the exam, contemplating how to fight Serie, and attempting to defeat Macht, the most powerful Sage of Destruction and whom was also his master.
For most of his life, Denken is weighed down by the death of his wife and is fearful of remembering the happy times he has spent with her. It is why he has delayed returning to visit his hometown for so long that it has become a restricted area due to the Golden Land's expansion. However, the happy memories he has in his hometown with her becomes the impetus for his quest to defeat Macht and save his hometown.
Denken has a soft spot for young adults like Laufen, Fern, and Stark since he never had children nor grandchildren of his own. He treats and spoils them before parting ways after the exam.

Appearance:
Denken is an elderly man with brown hair and a long, thick beard. He wears a monocle on his left eye. He is commonly seen wearing a long, black robe with white collars.

Abilities:
Denken is a powerful mage who achieved the rank of first-class mage, a title that less than fifty people have ever been able to achieve prior to the First-Class Mage Exam he participated in.
Mana detection: Denken is talented at detecting mana, being the only member of his party that could sense the faint traces of mana in the water left by Kanne during the first stage of the first-class mage exam. Additionally, he was able to detect the moment Frieren used a binding spell to find her on the examination grounds.
Keen intellect: Denken is a cunning man who was able to thrive in the world of politics for many years. His experience is shown during the first exam, where he successfully dissected the second party's plan and decided that the best course of action was to steal the Stille from them at a crucial moment. He was also the only one in his team who realized the existance of traps set up by the Geisel monsters.
Hand-to-hand combat: Beyond Denken's magic expertise, he is capable of engaging an opponent in physical combat.

Spells:
Tornado Winds: Waldgose (竜巻を起こす魔法, Varudogōze): Denken is able to create a tornado that envelops his target.
Wind becomes Hellfire: Daosdorg (風を業火に変える魔法, Daosudorugu): Denken turns a source of wind into a blaze of fire surrounding the target. He used this as a follow-up attack after Waldgose against Frieren.
Lights of Judgement: Catastravia (裁きの光を放つ魔法, Katasutorāvia): Denken summons numerous arrows of light directed at his target. Upon contact, they form a barrage of large explosions.
Offensive magic: Zoltraak (一般攻撃魔法, Zorutorāku): Denken is competent with Zoltraak, and he can shoot a single, concentrated blast or multiple blasts at a target at immense speed. Denken claims it is a fundamental spell for a mage and has been improved upon for more than half a century. He has mastered this spell to such a great level he is capable of casting a highly concentrated Zoltraak from his bare hands.
Defensive magic (防御魔法, Bōgyo mahō): Like most modern mages, Denken is capable of casting defensive magic in the form of a hexagonal protective barriers. His defenses are good enough to block multiple blasts of Zoltraak from Frieren.
Curse Reversal Magic: Mistilziela (呪い返しの魔法, Misutirujīra): Mistilziela is a spell that reflects anything it perceives to be a curse back at the one who cast it. However, it uses a colossal amount of mana, comparable to the mana needed to erect omnidirectional defense magic. It also requires a hundred years of practice to learn, making it impossible for a human to learn through ordinary means. After passing the First-Class Mage Exam and being granted the title of first-class mage, Denken requests this spell from Serie for his privilege, and she transfers both the spell and her hundred years of training to him. Denken chose this magic particularly to counter Macht's Diagoldze once they fight.

Relationships:
(This section is currently in active development and has no main content yet.)

Trivia:
"Denken" is German / Dutch for "to think" if used as a verb. When it is used as a deverbal noun, it means "the act of thinking."
Denken ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 7th in the first popularity contest with 2,152,167 points. 12th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Denken ranked 8th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).