Länge (レンゲ, Renge) is a mage participating in the same First-Class Mage Exam as Frieren and Fern. During the first stage of the exam, she forms the first party alongside Methode and Ton.

Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Affiliation: 1st Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Pink
Eye Color: Pink
Manga Debut: Chapter 40 (partial appearance), Chapter 46 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 18 (partial appearance), Episode 22 (full appearance)

Personality:
Länge is cooperative, being one of the five mages who stay behind and is willing to team up with Denken during the second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam. A quiet bookworm, she rarely speaks and is often surrounded by books. She enjoys reading, even while traveling in a carriage, and she becomes fully absorbed in her books whenever she has the chance.
Länge is also easily frightened. When Laufen and Richter point out the person-shaped stain in the trapped hallway in the Ruins of the King's Tomb, she appears visibly scared and clutches her hands to her chest. She is also shown to be scared to the point of tearing up when she is knocked into a trapped room by Gargoyles later on in the dungeon.

Appearance:
Länge is petite and appears rather young. She has pink eyes and long, pink hair that reaches her lower back with bangs sectioned into three parts that frame her face.
Länge wears a loose white dress with ruffled sleeves and shoulder cutouts. Her dress falls to her mid calf and she wears brown boots. The front of her dress has three small, pink bows on the chest. She also wears a necklace with a star pendant.
In battle, Länge uses a staff that is tipped with a star shape.

Synopsis:
First-Class Mage Exam:
First Stage:
Länge is one of the examinees who gather to take the First-Class Mage Exam in Äußerst. She is placed in the first party with Methode and Ton for the first stage of the exam. During this stage, Lawine hides from them after running away from the lake. In the hours before sunset on the second day of the first stage, they face another party and defeat them. They are one of the six parties that manage to successfully secure a Stille during the first stage of the exam.
In the intermission between the first and second stage of the exam, Länge spends time in Äußerst. When messenger birds deliver the details about the second stage of the exam to each of the mages who will be participating in the second stage, she is found in a library in the city surrounded by books.

Second Stage:
During the second stage of the exam, Länge is one of four other mages who stays behind when Denken proposes that they all cooperate to clear the dungeon together, the others being Richter, Laufen, and Methode. The five of them enter the dungeon as a group, and Denken's expertise helps them evade an early trap. However, in the next room, gargoyles attack them, and Länge is trapped in a small room away from everyone else. The room has spikes on both walls that slowly close in on the victim in the middle. Denken fires Catastravia at the wall to no avail, and he directs Länge to break her golem bottle. With the spikes closing in around her, Länge shatters her bottle. One of Lernen's golems appears and carries her over its shoulder to exit the dungeon, protecting her life at the cost of her failure in the second stage of the exam.
At the conclusion of the second stage, Länge is seen outside the dungeon along with all the other examinees that failed the stage. She reads a book while some of the others converse or receive healing from Lernen's golems.

Abilities:
Not much is known about Länge's abilities. However, her participation in the First-Class Mage Exam indicates that she is powerful enough to attain at least a fifth-class mage status.

Trivia:
Länge is German for "length."
Länge ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 52nd in the first popularity contest. 22nd in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Länge ranked 43rd when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).