Ton (トーン, Tōn) is a mage participating in the same First-Class Mage Exam as Frieren and Fern. During the first stage of the exam, he forms the first party alongside Methode and Länge.

Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Affiliation: 1st Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Light brown
Eye Color: Green
Manga Debut: Chapter 40 (partial appearance), Chapter 46 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 18 (partial appearance), Episode 22 (full appearance)
Japanese VA: Taito Ban

Personality:
Ton is somewhat of a lone wolf, preferring to work alone unless there is a clear benefit to teaming up. He tends to distrust others, which contributes to his pragmatic nature. This is evident when he recognizes the risks that less seasoned adventurers face in the Ruins of the King's Tomb, where they can easily become sacrificial pawns. As a result, he does not easily trust experienced individuals.

Appearance:
Ton is a tall man with green eyes and light-brown hair parted in the middle. He wears a green and white top with dark green accents and loose sleeves over a gray, long-sleeved undershirt. His top goes down to his knees, with the front part cut out. Additionally, he dons black pants and flats.

Synopsis:
First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage):
Ton is one of the examinees who gather to take the First-Class Mage Exam in Äußerst. He is placed in the first party with Methode and Länge. During the first stage of the exam, Lawine hides from them after running away from the lake. In the hours before sunset on the second day of the first stage, they face another party and defeat them. They are one of the six parties who manage to successfully secure a Stille during the first stage of the exam.
In the intermission between the first and second stage of the exam, Ton spends time in Äußerst. When messenger birds deliver the details about the second stage of the exam to each of the mages who will be participating, he is in the middle of enjoying a bath in a tub.

First-Class Mage Exam (Second Stage):
After Sense explains the second stage of the exam, which occurs at the Ruins of the King's Tomb, Denken proposes that all the mages group up and work together to clear the dungeon. Ton immediately opposes the idea, given that there is no obligation for anyone to help each other and they may become sacrificial pawns if necessary. He voices his distrust of Denken and elects to go in alone.
While the other examinees traverse through the dungeon, Ton is shown to be dejected, seemingly having reached a dead end. He is later confronted by Wirbel, Scharf, and Ehre's Spiegel clones in the dungeon and flees with a golem's help, which results in his failure.

Abilities:
Not much is known about Ton's abilities. However, his participation in the First-Class Mage Exam indicates that he is powerful enough to attain at least a fifth-class mage status.

Trivia:
Ton in German means "tone / sound / clay".
Ton ranked the following in the official popularity polls: Tied with Blei for 81st in the first popularity contest. 72nd in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Ton ranked 95th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).