Kraft (クラフト, Kurafuto) is a monk, former warrior, and an elf even older than Frieren.

Gender: Male
Age: 1000+
Species: Elf
Class: Monk, Warrior (former)
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Olive green
Manga Debut: Chapter 24
Anime Debut: Episode 11
Japanese VA: Takehito Koyasu
English VA: Orion Pitts

Personality:
Kraft is a kind, lively, and devout man. He welcomes Frieren's Party into his cabin for an entire winter and even shares his food and supplies with them. He seems to have a strong sense of justice and values life, having been known for charitable deeds such as saving villages in the past, and he prevents bandits from being killed by Übel by forcing them to flee. At some point in his life, he decided to become a monk and serve the Goddess of Creation, as he did not want his acts to be forgotten and wished for someone to praise him at the end of his life.
Having lived an even longer life than Frieren, Kraft is able to provide her and her party members with words of advice, and he offers to honor her in the Goddess's stead if she does not believe in the Goddess.
Unlike most elves, Kraft is seemingly shown to be more in touch with his emotions and feelings and appears to empathize and socialize with others more easily in comparison to other elves. Unlike Frieren and Serie, Kraft possesses a more spirited and lively disposition, with him smiling and generally expressing his feelings more frequently.

Appearance:
Kraft is muscular and has short, spiky, olive-green hair with a darker undercut, along with thick eyebrows and the long ears of an elf. He wears clothes that are typical of monks, which include a long, dark robe with gold accents, a cream-colored stole, and a necklace with a crest of the Goddess of Creation. He is noted to bear a strong resemblance to Sein's friend, the Warrior Gorilla.

Synopsis:
History:
In his youth, Kraft did not believe in the existence of the Goddess of Creation. At some point, he was a warrior who saved the world alongside a human priest. As time passed, however, their names were lost to history. Sometime after saving the world, he became a monk, wishing for the Goddess to honor him in Heaven, as those who knew of his accomplishments and acts of justice had already passed.

Travels to Äußerst Arc:
Kraft meets Frieren, Fern, and Stark in the Decke Region twenty-eight years after Himmel's passing, which is his first meeting with another elf in around three hundred years. After spending nearly half a year living with the group during the long winter in the Northern Lands, he and Frieren's party depart and go their separate ways.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (First Stage):
Prior to the First-Class Mage Exam, Kraft crosses paths with Übel in a remote region of Graf Granat's Domain, with the latter on her way to Äußerst. Kraft attacks and intimidates a group of thieves into fleeing from him and Übel after he discovers that a mage has previously cut up bodies of thieves, deducing that Übel was responsible for such action. The two then split off in opposite directions.

Abilities:
Hand-to-hand combat: Kraft is proficient enough in hand-to-hand combat to propel another individual into the air with a single punch.

Trivia:
"Kraft" is German for "force" or "power." While "power" is a close English translation, "Kraft" in German does not carry the meaning of "dominion" or "enforcement," e.g. political power or subjugation. These concepts translate to "Macht" instead.
Kraft ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 41st in the first popularity contest. 50th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Kraft ranked 31st when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).