Aura (アウラ, Aura), also known as Aura the Guillotine (断頭台のアウラ, Dantōdai no Aura) is one of the Seven Sages of Destruction directly serving the Demon King. Using her signature magic, Auserlese, she weighs the mana of her opponent's soul as well as her own on her Scales of Obedience, granting the soul with more mana complete control over the other's body.

Aliases: Aura the Guillotine (断頭台のアウラ), Lady Aura (by her executioners)
Gender: Female
Age: 500+
Species: Demon
Class: Mage
Rank: Sage of Destruction (七崩賢), Greater Demon (大魔族)
Affiliation: Seven Sages of Destruction
Status: Deceased
Hair Color: Magenta
Eye Color: Dark blue
Manga Debut: Chapter 14
Anime Debut: Episode 7 (mentioned), Episode 8 (first appearance)
Japanese VA: Ayana Taketatsu
English VA: Corey Pettit

Personality:
Aura is, as a demon, an articulate monster who is individualistic and harbors no sense of empathy. Even though she has her executioners as subordinates, she was not distressed in the slightest to learn of their demise. Typical of her race, she has strong confidence in the superiority of her magic and seems to enjoy battles where she thinks she has the upper hand. However, Aura has also shown to be a cautious person. When she is up against enemies whom she could not beat, such as the Hero Party, she will opt to choose to retreat instead of trying to face them head-on. This tendency contributed to her survival when the Demon King was defeated. She also makes sure to check for signs of mana instability in a mage and is aware of the history of renowned mages that she fights, such as Frieren.

Appearance:
Aura has magenta hair that reaches to the middle of her back. Her hair is gathered in two large pigtails tied at the shoulder. The remaining hair in the pigtails is sectioned off into three braids. Aura has dark blue eyes and two light brown horns protruding through her hair. She wears a dark, sleeveless bodice with white trimmings that has a cutout at her navel and a ruffled white skirt underneath. A magenta skirt tail is fastened at her waist with gold buttons, complementing the golden accessories at her neck. Her opera gloves are the same color as her bodice and wrap around her upper arm in a series of threads, and her boots are striped and reach her mid thigh.

Scales of Obedience:
The Scales of Obedience (服従の天秤, Fukujū no Tenbin) are a magical item used by Aura. They resemble a libra with two hemispherical scales balanced on either side. With her spell of obedience, Auserlese, Aura places her own soul and her target’s soul onto the scales to measure their mana pools.

Synopsis:
History:
Aura became a Sage of Destruction more than five hundred years ago and built an army out of the people whom she subjugated with her magic. She is famous for decapitating every person she successfully controlled upon finding out that a person with sufficient willpower could partially defy her magic, granting her the title of "Aura the Guillotine." At some point, she and all Sages of Destruction were called to assist in a coming battle against the Hero of the South under the command of Schlacht. She survived the encounter, though at the cost of three of her fellow Sages and Schlacht himself. When she faced the Hero Party, she suffered the loss of a significant portion of her undead army, was injured by Himmel, and was forced to retreat. The party would go on to defeat the Demon King. Afterwards, Aura remained in hiding until Himmel's passing.
After Himmel's death, Aura reappeared and began to wage a war in order to take over Graf Granat's Domain in the Northern Lands. This led to a bitter conflict with the humans there since and resulted in the death of Graf Granat's son after he was enlisted to fight in the war.

Aura the Guillotine Arc:
Twenty-eight years post Himmel's death, Aura, seemingly tired of war, sends three of her executioners, Lügner, Linie, and Draht, as messengers to negotiate for peace with Graf Granat by the time Frieren's Party arrives. However, her real intention was to lower the Graf's guard and persuade him to disable the powerful barrier surrounding his domain, effectively giving her and her army free access.
However, Frieren kills Draht, one of Aura's executioners, and proceeds to confront her outside the town. After a short battle against her undead army, Aura finally decides to use her Scales of Obedience, putting both of their souls on it to see which individual possesses more mana. At first, the scale appears to favor her soul, but it suddenly starts shifting to Frieren. Frieren reveals her mana concealment strategy, and Aura is unable to comprehend that a mage would limit their mana their entire life just to deceive demons. Aura emphasizes that she has lived for over five hundred years, but Frieren reveals that she has lived for more than a thousand years and reveals her true mana output, which is much higher than Aura's. This leads to Aura losing to her own submission magic, giving Frieren free rein over Aura's body. Frieren then orders Aura to kill herself, to which she is forced to comply by cutting off her own head.

Abilities:
As one of Seven Sages of Destruction Aura is a demon possessing magic that surpasses humanity's knowledge and reason.
Immense Mana Output: Being a great demon that lived for over five-hundred years and has devoted most of her time to training, Aura possesses colossal amounts of mana. Until her defeat at the hands of Frieren, during her lifetime she never weighed on her scales a soul that had more mana than her own.

Spells:
Spell of Obedience: Auserlese (服従させる魔法, Azeryūze): Aura's unique magic allows her to weigh her soul against her target's using the Scales of Obedience. If Aura's mana exceeds that of her opponent, she gains permanent control over their body. However, this control can be temporarily broken by someone with an unyielding will. To counteract this, Aura often resolves the issue by beheading those under her control. While Aura's magic is incredibly powerful, it carries significant risk. If her opponent possesses more mana, they can permanently take control of her body, making the use of the Scales a high-stakes gamble for Aura.

Trivia:
In the manga, Aura first appears in Chapter 14 when Frieren explains who she is to Stark and Fern. However, this is cut from the anime, and Frieren only mentions Aura by name.
Aura ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 10th in the first popularity contest with 1415105 points. 2nd in the second popularity contest with 1045369 votes, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Aura ranked 7th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).