Eisen (アイゼン, Aizen) is a dwarf and the former warrior of the Hero Party that defeated the Demon King, consisting of himself alongside Frieren, Himmel and Heiter. As a dwarf, he has a much longer lifespan than most humans, but a shorter one than elves.

Gender: Male
Age: 100+
Species: Dwarf
Class: Warrior
Rank: Vanguard
Affiliation: Hero Party
Relatives: Stark (adopted Son), Unnamed Parents (deceased)
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Brown
Eye Color: Black
Manga Debut: Chapter 1
Anime Debut: Episode 1
Japanese VA: Yoji Ueda
English VA: Christopher Guerrero

Personality:
Eisen is a witty and troublesome person, and failing to show respect to the king prior to their adventure almost had him and Himmel executed. Eisen is also known to be rather careless and tough, jumping down from extreme heights without a scratch.
He initially did not believe in religion, and thought of the deaths of his family in a matter-of-fact manner, shown by having them in a mass grave with a simple stone. However, after listening to Heiter say that he wants to believe they are in Heaven because it would be more comforting to the deceased, Eisen adopted the practice of praying at their graves. He has maintained this practice even in his old age.

Appearance:
As a male dwarf, Eisen is of short stature and has a strong build. His brown hair and beard are of similar length and reach past his chest, and most of his face is obstructed by his beard.
Eisen wears a floor-length red cape with shoulder armor and a brown tunic underneath that is strapped by a belt around his waist. The cape obscures his arms bands, thigh trousers, and leather boots. Additionally, he wears a two-horned helmet with a nose guard. During battle, Eisen wields a large, double-bit axe.
In old age, Eisen has a notably thinner build, losing the majority of the muscle mass in his arms.

Abilities:
Eisen is a dwarven warrior that has dedicated his life to refining his exceptional talents in combat. His centuries of training have given Eisen exceptional physical abilities to the point where he claims he can break a diamond with his hands, putting him on par with the best human and demon warriors, such as Rivale.
Superhuman durability
Superhuman strength
Superhuman speed
Superhuman reflexes
Poison resistance
Axe proficiency

Techniques:
Lightning Strike (閃天撃, Sentengeki): Wielding his signature double-bit battle axe, Eisen executes a powerful downward slash against his opponent. He brings his axe down with incredible speed and immense force, generating a shockwave that shatters the ground.

Trivia:
"Eisen" means "iron" in German.
Eisen is Abe Tsukasa's favorite character because his character design is refreshing to illustrate.
Eisen ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 17th in the first popularity contest. 31st in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Eisen ranked 18th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).