Scharf (シャルフ, Sharufu) is a third-class mage and member of the eighth party along with Wirbel and Ehre for the First-Class Mage Exam.

Gender: Male
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Third-Class
Affiliation: 8th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Black

Personality:
Scharf is a quiet person with a calm demeanor. He seldom speaks to others outside of his party, instead letting his partner Wirbel lead. However, whenever Scharf becomes incapacitated, he tears up easily and looks extremely dejected, as seen during his battles against Land, and against Denken's clone.

Appearance:
Scharf is a young man of extremely tall stature. He has short black hair slicked back, and a single thin long bang running down the right side of his face. He wears a white coat with black cuffs, and a belt running down both of his shoulders and across his upper abdomen.

Synopsis:
Scharf is a Third-Class mage who participates in the First-Class Mage Exam.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (First Stage):
During the First-Class Mage Exam, Scharf's party ambushes Fern's party, attempting to steal their Stille. Scharf fights against Land, and slashes his right shoulder deeply with his flower petal magic. Land notes that Scharf is self-taught and lacking in the fundamentals. Scharf threatens to behead Land if he does not surrender, but another one of Land's clones sneaks up behind him and temporarily paralyzes him.
Later, Wirbel begins to ask Scharf to help him carry Ehre until realizing that he was also incapacitated. Scharf asks an extremely dismayed Wirbel to carry him. As Ehre thanks Wirbel for not leaving the two of them behind, Wirbel responds by saying he wouldn't mind leaving them there. Scharf begs Wirbel not to leave him behind, to which Wirbel tells him to stop crying. The party manages to pass by coming across a Stille, which Wirbel restrains using binding magic.
After the first stage is over, Wirbel and Scharf are looking for a vanguard to assist them with a subjugation request. Fern agrees to let them take Stark, who reluctantly goes. They are later seen reading Sense's letter during the subjugation, leaving Stark fighting alone, and again later seen eating the boar's meat with Stark.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Second Stage):
At the entrance to the Tomb of the Ruined King, Wirbel refuses to team up with anyone he is unfamiliar with, and beckons Scharf to come with him. Ehre runs after them, yelling at them to wait for her.
In the dungeon, the group encounters their mirror clones created by the water-mirrow demon Spiegel. Wirbel instructs Scharf to obstruct their vision using flower petals, and tells him to take on Wirbel's clone. Ehre is also instructed to take on Scharf's clone, while Wirbel takes on Ehre's clone. The group manage to defeat their clones and come out relatively unscathed.
The group is then approached by Methode, who informs them about Frieren's clone at the core of the dungeon and requests them to assist in taking down Denken's clone, which they accept. The battle ends when Frieren shatters Spiegel's body, and Scharf and Ehre are seen unable to move after the fight. Scharf asks Wirbel to carry him on his back, but he is later seen being levitated by magic by Wirbel.

First-Class Mage Exam Arc (Final Stage):
Scharf is one of the several immediately failed by Serie, presumably for showing fear towards her mana. Scharf is later seen dejected, with Wirbel at his side comforting him.
Scharf and Ehre are last seen accompanying Wirbel to the very north until they reach the Imperial Capital's port town.

Continued Northern Travels Arc:
Scharf is later seen in an inn along with Wirbel and Ehre. Scharf remains seated with Ehre as Wirbel goes to talk to Stark. When Wirbel asks Frieren to let him convince Stark to join them, he is seen laughing and having a good time with the warrior along with the rest of his group. The next morning Scharf along with Wirbel and Ehre leave the inn they are staying at. They say their goodbyes to Frieren's Party before proceeding down the fork in the road that leads to the Neutral Harbor.

Relationships:
Wirbel:
Scharf and Wirbel appear to be extremely good friends, and they voluntarily chose to partner up for the Second Stage of the First-Class Mage Exam. They are also seen together looking for a vanguard, and also taking on a subjugation request between the First Stage and the Second Stage. Scharf, Wirbel, and Ehre all travel together to the Empire after the events of the First-Class Mage Exam.

Abilities:
Transform flower petals into steel: Jubelade: Scharf's main spell is Jubelade, which allows him to transform flower petals into steel and manipulate them to get past his opponent's defenses and cut them. In the manga, when fighting in spaces with little foliage, he is seen bringing bouquets as a source of petals.
Spell to produce a field of flowers: In the anime, Scharf produces a field of flowers around himself at the start of a fight, which provides him a source of petals for Jubelade.

Trivia:
"Scharf" is German for "sharp".
Scharf is identified as a Second-Class Mage in the official English localization by Viz Media. However, both the original Japanese text and the anime designate him as a Third-Class Mage.
Scharf ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 54th in the first popularity contest. 27th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Scharf ranked 52nd when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).