Lawine (ラヴィーネ, Ravīne) is a third-class mage that participated in the First-Class Mage Exam at the same time as Frieren and Fern. During the first stage of the exam, she forms the second party alongside Kanne and Frieren. She specializes in manipulating ice.

Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Third-Class
Affiliation: Academy of Magic (formerly), 2nd Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Relatives: Three unnamed older brothers, Unnamed mother
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Gray
Eye Color: Blue
Manga Debut: Chapter 37 (partial appearance), Chapter 38 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 18
Japanese VA: Sayumi Suzushiro
English VA: Rebecca Danae

Personality:
Lawine is usually calm and collected. However, her temper can have a very short fuse, especially with her childhood friend Kanne.

Appearance:
Lawine is a young, female mage with gray hair and blue eyes. She has blunt bangs and waist-length hair, with the end of her hair tied off with a ribbon. The strands of her hair at the sides of her face are braided and pinned together at the back of her head.
Lawine wears a blue dress that goes to mid thigh and is lined with ruffles at the hem. The front of her dress is cut into a deep, laced v-neck layered over a white blouse. On top of her dress, Lawine wears a matching blue capelet similarly lined with ruffles at the hem. On her feet, she wears thigh-high white laced boots with heels.
During the intermission between the first and second stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, Lawine wears an outfit gifted by her older brothers, consisting of a white one-piece dress with a belt, a light-blue cardigan, white socks, blue flats, and a white sun hat decorated with a blue ribbon. Additionally, she carries a white and blue handbag.

Synopsis:
History:
Lawine and Kanne grew up together and are graduates of the same Academy of Magic. As the younger sister to three older brothers, Lawine expressed bitterness towards growing up being compared to them.
During their time at the Academy of Magic, Lawine and Kanne had their first session of flight training over a body of water. Lawine stayed behind with Kanne, who had frozen up in fear. When Kanne claimed she was someone who improved with praise, Lawine pointed out Kanne's good points, going as far as to call Kanne cute when she laughed. This caused Kanne to call her compliment creepy, and Lawine kicked Kanne off the cliff and towards the water, prompting Kanne to use her flight magic. Lawine then joined Kanne in the air, proclaiming that Kanne could fly after all.

First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage):
Lawine participates in the First-Class Mage Exam in Äußerst. She is placed in the second party along with Frieren and Kanne. Before the exam even begins, she and Kanne are already fighting, with Lawine sitting on Kanne's back and pulling her pigtails. Upon entering the exam grounds, the two continue to fight, with the argument shifting to who will hold onto the cage they have been given to hold the Stille in. Once the exam begins, she wins Frieren's proposed rock-paper-scissors match with Kanne to decide who will hold the Stille cage. She introduces herself to the party as a third-class mage. Neither she nor Kanne know anything about the Stille they are meant to catch, so the three of them spend some time searching for a Stille to observe. When Kanne grows tired and Frieren calls for a rest, Lawine declares she will scout ahead. Frieren inquires after Lawine's strength, and she tells Frieren that she is stronger than Kanne, but she wouldn't want to fight Frieren. Frieren lets her go with a warning to be wary of the sky, and Lawine replies that she already knows about the Geisel patrolling the skies.
A short while later, Lawine returns to the party having found a Stille bathing in a shallow puddle. She and Kanne perfectly coordinate their magic, with Kanne manipulating the water to envelop part of the Stille's body, and Lawine instantly freezing the water to trap the Stille. Frieren praises their coordination, but tells them to take cover, before the Stille breaks out of their restraint and flies away. After, Frieren says they will spend the rest of the day learning about the Stille, so they continue to traverse through the exam grounds while observing Stilles. The next day, after noting in particular the Stilles' sensitivity to mana and the inability for water to break through the antimatter barrier surrounding the exam grounds, the party enacts their plan to capture a Stille. Lawine freezes over the lake in the center of the exam grounds, making it so that any Stilles in the area will not approach it, before escaping and rendezvousing with Frieren and Kanne.
After Frieren captures a Stille and then promptly has it stolen by Laufen, a fight breaks out between the thirteenth and second parties. Their opponent is the earth-control mage Richter, who raises a plateau in the exam grounds to separate them from Frieren's battle with Denken. Though Richter initially intends to kill them, Denken implores him to just babysit instead. Richter quickly defeats both Kanne and Lawine, as they are unable to deal with his attacks that use the mass of the earth to his advantage. However, when Frieren breaks the barrier over the exam grounds and lets in the rain, Lawine quickly freezes Richter's feet to the ground to prevent him from dodging Kanne's attack.

First-Class Mage Exam (Second Stage):
In the second stage of the exam, Lawine and Kanne enter the Ruins of the King's Tomb together. They advance deep into the dungeon, aided by information from Lawine’s eldest brother, who was part of the advance party sent by the Continental Magic Association to raid the ruins. Upon reaching the innermost depths, they join the group that has gathered there, with Lawine sharing intel about the Spiegel and its clones.
When Fern reveals Frieren's weakness to the group, Kanne and Lawine are both unable to discern what it is. They participate in formulating a strategy to clear the dungeon. Each mage identifies their worst matchup among the others. Lawine teams up with Richter to fight the clones of Kanne and Lawine. They eventually defeat them, though Lawine comments that she did not enjoy the battle. However, they are then ambushed by Sense's clone, forcing both to use their bottled golems, failing the exam.
Outside the Ruins of the King's Tomb, Lawine is seen sitting with the other failed examinees.

After the second stage, Kanne and Lawine stand together atop a wall overlooking the city. Kanne muses that three years until the next exam is a long time. A visibly glum Lawine tells Kanne that if she plans on making fun of her, she should just get it over with. However, recognizing that Lawine doesn't actually want to be teased, Kanne instead comforts her with a pat on the head. At that moment, Frieren approaches the two mages, asking where the best repair shop in town is.

First-Class Mage Exam (Third Stage):
After the privilege conferment ceremony, Kanne and Lawine see Frieren's Party off as they leave Äußerst. Despite their failure, the two are in high spirits. They thank Frieren for her help and tell her they’ll try again in three years. The two remain in Äußerst and are later seen watching the city from the walls once more.

The Golden Land:
In Edel's memories, she encounters Kanne and Lawine on the streets of Äußerst sometime after the First-Class Mage Exam. Edel admires the pastries they’ve bought from a nearby bakery—Lawine has a bunny-shaped pastry, while Kanne chose one shaped like a kitty. When Lawine takes a big bite out of her pastry, Kanne hugs her around the middle, pleading with her to show more love to cute things.

Relationships:
Kanne:
Lawine and Kanne are childhood friends that attended the same Academy of Magic. Lawine and Kanne frequently argue, and Lawine is especially quick to anger around Kanne, resulting in her sitting on Kanne's back and pulling her pigtails. Although they constantly bicker, Lawine is shown to understand Kanne well. She praises Kanne for being hardworking—despite her cowardice—even when others are not paying attention. She also expresses her appreciation to Kanne for being considerate, paying attention to others, and being cute when she laughs. Lawine and Kanne work well together in fights; she makes use of the water manipulated by Kanne for her own ice magic.

Abilities:
Ice magic: Lawine specializes in elemental ice magic. She is able to manipulate water in her surroundings and turn it to ice. This includes water shaped by others, such as Kanne.
Arrows of Ice: Nephtear: Lawine produces large spears of ice around herself that are then fired at the target.

Trivia:
Lawine is German / Dutch for "avalanche".
Lawine ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 24th in the first popularity contest. 24th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Lawine ranked 14th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).