The Goddess of Creation (天地創造の女神, Tenchi Sōzō no Megami) is a figure that was seen in mythical times. Though she has not been seen since, many people in the present day worship her. She is believed to be omniscient and omnipotent and to have created the world itself.

Gender: Female
Hair Color: White
Manga Debut: Chapter 2 (mentioned), Chapter 24 (first appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 1 (mentioned), Episode 12 (first appearance)

Appearance:
Though unseen since mythical times, the Goddess of Creation is consistently depicted as a pointy-eared female of short stature. She has long hair that falls past her waist in curls and wears a crown of flowers in her hair.
The Goddess of Creation is depicted wearing a sleeveless, calf length dress that splits into three sections reminiscent of flower petals. The top of the dress is pleated with a large collar. The skirt of the dress is patterned with twisting vines, and the bottom of the skirt is embellished by a brocade and lace hem. The skirt covers the top of black, pointed shoes that lace up around the calves. From the back of the dress are two short fabric trains that hang loosely and resemble wings. A belt fashioned with a diamond shaped clasp and embroidered similarly to the skirt crosses over the waistline of the dress.
Most notably, the Goddess of Creation possesses a large pair of feathered wings that span from her shoulder blades to her feet. These wings are represented no matter how simplistic the effigy.

Synopsis:
History:
The Goddess of Creation is believed by many to have created the world. Frieren mentions that she has not been seen since mythical times, but many people remain strongly devoted.
At some point during mythical times, the Goddess of Creation enchanted ten monuments with her magic and placed them across the continent. One of these monuments, enchanted with time magic, lies near the Kino Pass.
Additionally, it is said that the Goddess of Creation bestowed the Sword of the Hero upon humanity. This sword eventually became embedded in holy ground near the Village of the Sword, located somewhere in the Schwer Mountains.

Abilities:
Omniscience and omnipotence: Richter describes the Goddess as being both all-powerful and all-knowing. It is said that Serie, the Living Grimoire who possesses knowledge of practically every spell known to humanity, is the closest being to the Goddess of Creation in terms of knowledge and power.
Goddess's Magic: Priests use holy magic that is named after the Goddess. This magic can range from healing magic to supportive magic that allows one to go for up to two months without food, water, and oxygen. It is implied that the all-knowing and all-powerful Goddess created this magic and continues to sanction its use to this day.
Blessing of the Goddess (女神の加護, Megami no Kago): The Goddess can bestow her blessing upon individuals, granting them a natural talent for her magic. This blessing enhances resistance to curses and is essential for using the Goddess's magic.
Time manipulation magic: The Goddess possesses the ability to initiate time travel, which is activated through her monuments. This magic allows a person's consciousness to travel backwards in time, with the magic working by "marking" a specific period in time of when the person first touches the monument.
Spell to Return: Vialathor (フィアラトール, Fiaratōru): The name of the spell required to bring an individual back to their original timeline through the Goddess's Monument. When the spell is written on the monument in the future timeline, the individual can be returned to their time period from the past by touching the monument again. This appears to have been a single-use spell, as the power in the monument vanished after it was used.

Worship of the Goddess:
The ten monuments of the Goddess are sites where believers gather to pray for good fortune. In a few churches statues of the Goddess of Creation can be found. In the Central Lands, smaller Dosojin-like stone markers can be found along roadsides, often accompanied by fruits, nuts, and grains—presumably offerings left to honor the Goddess.
The Goddess of Creation is also symbolized through various objects crafted by believers. Egg-shaped items made from materials like wood or stone are adorned with stylized carvings or drawings of the Goddess and are often displayed in homes and communal spaces. Other symbols of devotion include a small wooden statue with wings, carved by Kraft for Fern, representing dedication to the Goddess. Similar iconography is commonly seen in churches. The highest-ranking priests in a region wear official pendants featuring a motif of spanning wings, as seen with Sein's Brother. Additionally, grimoires containing the Holy Scriptures often have stylized wings on their covers. The symbolism is also expressed on many gravestones and coffins.

Trivia:
The Goddess of Creation is consistently depicted with the long ears of an elf.
To design a consistent world, the anime's concept artist, Seiko Yoshioka, coordinated with the authors of the manga, Kanehito Yamada and Tsukasa Abe, to incorporate important elements to fill in the backgrounds of the anime. To represent the belief in the Goddess and its integration into everyday life, art assets, such as Dōsojin-like stones with the Goddess's emblem carved into it, wheat ornaments on houses, and altars, were conceptualized.
The illustration of the Goddess of Creation in Episode 12 was drawn by the artist of Frieren: Beyond Journey's End, Abe Tsukasa.