Himmel (ヒンメル, Hinmeru) was the Hero of the Hero Party. With the help of Priest Heiter, Mage Frieren, and Warrior Eisen, he defeated the Demon King, creating an era of peace. After his death from old age, Frieren resolves to get to know Humans better, making him the catalyst for the main storyline of Frieren: Beyond Journey's End.

Age: ~26 (pre-timeskip), ~76 (post-timeskip)
Species: Human
Class: Hero
Affiliation: Hero Party
Relatives: Unnamed mother (deceased)
Status: Deceased
Hair Color: Blue
Eye Color: Blue
Manga Debut: Chapter 1
Anime Debut: Episode 1
Japanese VA: Nobuhiko Okamoto
English VA: Clifford Chapin

Personality:
Himmel was a laid-back and amiable man, effortlessly getting along with others and forming strong interpersonal connections. Additionally, his unwavering dedication towards protecting people—his initial motivation to become a hero—and going above and beyond to help them left a lasting impression on his companions and encouraged them to follow in his footsteps of kindness and compassion. His charisma also impacted those he helped, leading them to revere and honor him, even long after his death.

Though known for his heroism, Himmel did have a slightly boastful side, playfully declaring himself handsome and taking great care of his appearance, even in his older years. He would regularly accept the request for statues to be made of him, and he would make it difficult for the sculptors by constantly changing his poses during the sculpting process.

Appearance:
Himmel was a male human with blue hair and a mole near his left eye. His eyes were light blue. He was self-declared to be handsome and took great care of his appearance.

Himmel wore a long, beige cloak that draped down to his ankles, a fitted blue tunic, white pants, and black boots. Around his waist, he wore a white belt which contrasted with the blue fabric of his tunic, and this belt held his replica of the Sword of the Hero that was placed within a white scabbard.

Other Attire:
When he was a child, Himmel wore a simple tunic.
In his old age, Himmel went from a rather tall man to a much shorter hunched senior, smaller than the already short Frieren. He went bald and grew a full beard and mustache. He wore a long shirt tied around the waist with a brown band and a blue mantle. To get around, he walked with a thick, straight cane.

Replica of the Sword of the Hero:
The young Himmel obtained a replica of the Sword of the Hero after saving a peddler near his hometown. He attempted to replace the replica with the original that was stuck in a rock in a sanctuary near the Village of the Sword, but he was unable to pull it out. However, the common people throughout the continent spread the story that Himmel's sword was, in fact, the real Sword of the Hero. The replica was Himmel's lifelong companion, and he appeared to be buried with it.

Diary:
Himmel noted important events of his travels with the Hero Party in a diary. The memoirs were lost on an island in Lake Korridor, but they were later rediscovered and retrieved by Frieren's Party. Frieren takes them into her possession.

Abilities:
Himmel was a swordsman with incredible speed and keen senses. Though the Sword of the Hero he possessed was merely a replica, his abilities enabled him to face strong enemies and eventually defeat the Demon King. As the leader of the Hero Party, he was also the tactician.

Himmel was also smarter and more intuitive than he let on; although not a mage, he had a hunch Frieren was more powerful than any mage he had met thus far in his journey, despite Heiter's mana supposedly being five times higher than hers on their first meeting.

Sword proficiency: Himmel was able to launch attacks that plunge into enemies with exceptional force and speed. These leave a trail of light in their wake.

Superhuman speed: When the Hero Party encountered a young demon in a small village who had taken a human girl hostage, Himmel moved with inhuman swiftness, which enabled him to both land a severe blow with his sword before the demon could react and rescue the girl from the demon's claws.

Keen senses: While the Hero Party fell under Grausam's illusion spell, Himmel was the only party member capable of recognizing he was in an illusion through his keen senses. He was able to move his body in the waking world to attack Grausam despite still being trapped in the illusion, and he manages to land blows and defend against Grausam by tracking the demon's breathing and movements.

Trivia:
"Himmel" means "sky" or "heaven" in German, fitting his blue-themed design. Frieren and her party are on the way to Aureole, the place where souls rest, also known as Heaven, to meet him.
He shares the same Japanese and English voice actor as Katsuki Bakugo from My Hero Academia.
Himmel ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 1st in the first popularity contest with 17,354,803 points. 1st in the second popularity contest with 1,239,533 votes, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Himmel ranked 2nd when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).