The Demon King (魔王, Maō) was the leader of the Demon King Army, and his defeat was the primary objective of the Hero Party's ten year quest. He waged war against the human kingdoms of the continent from his castle in Ende for thousands of years before being slain by Frieren and her comrades. Despite his importance in the world, relatively little is known about him so far. Though Demons are solitary creatures without human emotions, he commanded the loyalty of all demons.

Gender: Male
Age: 1000+
Species: Demon
Rank: King
Status: Deceased
Manga Debut: Chapter 1 (mentioned), Chapter 22 (flashback)
Anime Debut: Episode 1 (mentioned)

Personality:
Not much is known about the Demon King's personality, however, while most demons value individuality, the Demon King notably fostered order among demons and was able to maintain loyalty among demonkind. Like Macht, the Demon King desired coexistence amongst humans and demons. He resorted to mass killing humans in an attempt to better understand their way of thinking, ultimately reducing mankind's sphere of influence by a third.

The Demon King was, according to Solitär, an "eccentric" demon similar to herself and Macht, as the Demon King was both intelligent and possessed a breadth of scientific knowledge. As implied by Frieren, and much like Macht and Solitär, due to the Demon King’s desire to understand humans and "coexist," he had extensively studied and researched humanity. Part of his studies involved researching other biological life and he came up with the theory of "convergent evolution" to explain the difference between mammals and aquatic life forms, a theory he then shared with Solitär.

Appearance:
Not much is known about the Demon King's appearance. He seemed to wear full plate armor. Like all demons, he had two horns on his head.

Synopsis:
History:
One thousand years before the era of the Hero Himmel the Demon King ordered his subordinates, including a general of his army and at least several extremely powerful demon mages, to massacre the elven population. Frieren's village was destroyed and its population killed, leaving her as the sole survivor of her village. Ironically, this led to Frieren meeting Flamme, who would go on to train Frieren and give her mission of killing the Demon King, which she succeeded at many centuries later.
Approximately twenty years before the Hero Party defeated him, the Demon King Army's offensive intensified, leading to a large increase in the number of mages in the overall human population. It was common to pass by mages walking through the streets of any regular town. However, by about twenty-nine years after Himmel's passing, mages had become a rare sight, only spotted in specific magical towns such as Äußerst.
Following his defeat, nearly all his direct higher ranking subordinates disappeared without a trace. However, the remnants of the Demon King Army were still a significant threat to the human kingdoms, and almost a century after his defeat, they still constitute of large enough forces to wage wars against human armies and hold the northern part of the continent. Notable demons of high status from the Demon King army to appear after the Demon King's defeat include Elder Sage of Corruption Qual and two members of the Seven Sages of Destruction, Aura, and Macht.

Abilities:
Not much is known about the Demon King's abilities. However, given demon societal hierarchies are based on strength, and all demons appeared to answer to the Demon King, it can be assumed that the Demon King was exceptionally powerful. In addition, when discussing the Hero Party's journey, Eisen mentioned that a lot happened in the Demon King's castle, indicating a difficult fight.

Mana detection: The Demon King is noted by Serie to possess immense mana sensitivity and detection, where, unlike a majority of his fellow demons, including his most powerful subordinates, the Demon King was able to instantly tell that Frieren had been actively concealing her mana output the second he laid eyes on her. Additionally, he was able to sense disruptions to the space-time of the world and correctly identifies Frieren as the individual that has traveled from the future through the Monument of the Goddess.

Trivia:
The Demon King's appearance in Chapter 22 of the manga was cut in the anime adaptation.