Edel (エーデル, Ēderu) is a second-class human mage participating in the First-Class Mage Exam. She is placed in the seventeenth party, alongside Blei and Dünste, during the first stage of the exam. She specializes in hypnosis magic.

Gender: Female
Species: Human
Class: Mage
Rank: Second-Class
Affiliation: 17th Party (First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage))
Status: Alive
Hair Color: Strawberry blonde
Eye Color: Hazel
Manga Debut: Chapter 39 (partial appearance), Chapter 46 (full appearance)
Anime Debut: Episode 19 (partial appearance), Episode 22 (full appearance)
Japanese VA: Tomoyo Kurosawa
English VA: Nia Celeste

Personality:
Edel is a remarkably level-headed mage while under pressure, as shown by her calm behavior while she is up against Sense's Spiegel clone in the First-Class Mage Exam and Macht on the expedition to the Golden Land. Despite Macht's renown, she succeeds in reading Macht's memories. Lernen calls her a braver mage than he is.
Otherwise, Edel appears slightly apathetic, stating her unwillingness to work after Lernen approaches her with a personal request. She is also highly domineering, constantly yelling at Blei and Dünste during the first stage of the exam.

Appearance:
Edel has the physique of a petite teenage girl and short, strawberry-blonde hair that is styled into a bob cut with curtain bangs. She has droopy, hazel eyes.
Throughout the First-Class Mage Exam, Edel wears a white, button-up dress with short puff sleeves and long, black boots. During her investigation of Weise with Lernen, she dons a cape-like coat and long pants.

Synopsis:
First-Class Mage Exam (First Stage):
Edel is a second-class mage that is placed in the seventeenth party during the first stage of the First-Class Mage Exam, alongside Blei and Dünste. Not much is known about the activities of the seventeenth party during the first stage, however, after being paired with Blei and Dünste, Edel appears to take on the leadership role in their party. They decide to wait around the lake for Stille to gather. However, once the second party freezes the lake, she does not have the acumen to realize that Stilles will no longer approach the lake and orders her teammates to use fire magic to melt the ice instead. She and her teammates are able to secure a Stille in the final few hours of the exam once a Stille lands on Dünste's back while he is hunched over.

First-Class Mage Exam (Second Stage):
At the beginning of the second stage exam held at the Ruins of the King's Tomb, Edel enters almost immediately with her first stage partners, Blei and Dünste, rather than partnering up with the other mages.
While the examinees are strategizing over how to defeat Frieren's clone created by the Spiegel, Edel is brought up as a possible counter to Frieren's clone. Methode suggests that Edel may be able to bypass the clone's mental defenses, if it has a mind.

While Edel and her first stage teammates are inside the dungeon, they encounter Sense's clone created by the Spiegel. Knowing they will not be able to hide for long, Blei asks Edel if her hypnosis magic would be able to work on the clone. Edel orders Blei and Dünste to cast a full sphere of defensive magic in order to give her time to make eye contact and speak to the clone to try and create an opening. However, this fails, leaving her vulnerable to a serious injury from Sense's clone, and Edel concludes that the clone does not have a mind. Heavily wounded, Edel resigns and uses her golem bottle to escape, failing the exam.
After the second stage of the exam concludes, Edel is seen outside the dungeon with the other examinees who failed. As one of Lernen's golems heal Richter, she marvels at the golems' ability to use healing magic.

The Golden Land Arc:
Edel is recruited by Lernen to assist him on the expedition to scout out the Fortified City of Weise, which has been transmuted into gold. Lernen explains that he wishes to gather information about Weise and aid his friend Denken, whose hometown is Weise. Lernen tasks her with restoring the functionality of the Stone Bracelet of Servitude, which he believes is defective, as the demon Macht transmuted Weise and its residents—including his master, Weise's feudal lord Glück—into gold, despite wearing the bracelet. He shows her a replica of the bracelet at the Continental Magic Association's northern branch building in Äußerst. Lernen explains that although the replica does not hold the same power, its magical structure has been faithfully reproduced.

After Edel examines the replica, she goes with Lernen to Weise. Upon arriving, Edel reads the memory of a former citizen of Weise, a servant of Glück's family, who witnessed the ceremony where Macht was equipped with the Stone Bracelet of Servitude. She notes that the command given was not precise enough for a demon to be adequately bound by. Edel also recognizes that the belief that Glück commanded Macht in order to gain wealth is logically unsound, since Macht's gold cannot be refined, which is one of the major properties of gold that gives it value.
Before reaching the barrier of the Golden Land, they encounter second-class mage Früh, who was part of the advance party sent to scout the Golden Land. She tells them that the advance party was wiped out in a flash. Lernen asks why Früh was the only one allowed to escape; as he speaks, she begins to turn to gold. He tells Edel to read her memories to no avail, as she turns into gold before either of them can move. After crossing the barrier into the Golden Land, Edel and Lernen are discovered by Macht almost immediately, and a battle between Macht and Lernen ensues. Edel works on restoring the Stone Bracelet of Servitude, but she realizes that no defect exists. Edel also confirms that no additional command can be placed on the bracelet except by the one who gave the original command.

While Macht is attacking Lernen, Edel sneaks up behind Macht and touches him, reading a hundred years' worth of memories at the cost of most of her strength. The two then manage to escape from Macht, with Edel visibly worn out on the carriage ride back to Äußerst. On the carriage ride back, Edel asks Lernen why he is going so far to help Denken. Lernen tells Edel about his and Denken's shared history, and how now that they are old and the end can come at anytime, he wishes to assist Denken in seeing the colors of his hometown again. Seeing Edel's expression, Lernen asks her whether she thinks Denken made up his mind too late. Edel answers truthfully that Denken was way too late in making his decision, and Lernen agrees with her, but also says that he understands. As humans, their time is limited, and there is no such thing as "someday" in their lives.

Relationships:
Lernen:
Edel was personally handpicked by Lernen to restore the functionality of the Stone Bracelet of Servitude. The two are familiar with each other, with Edel having been called upon for jobs by the Continental Magic Association before, presumably for her exceptional mental magic. Lernen thinks very highly of Edel's abilities and her bravery, going as far as to praise her courage in front of Macht himself and calling her a much braver mage than himself. Edel is fairly restrained and respectful around Lernen. After hearing Denken's story from him, she initially refrains from sharing her thoughts, but Lernen is able to read that Edel thinks Denken made his decision much too late, which prompts her to speak her thoughts openly.

Abilities:
Edel specializes in hypnosis magic, which comprises her family's business. She is also experienced with magic and spells related to memories, and she is capable of reading the memories of individuals with whom she makes physical contact with. However, her combat ability is practically nonexistent. Unlike most mages, Edel does not use a staff when casting spells, instead relying on her mental magic or other means of casting.
Keen Intellect: Edel is shown to be a highly analytical person, as shown when she swiftly analyzes the exact mechanics of Sense's magic when confronting her Spiegel clone and begins devising a strategy to defeat it. She is also able to quickly coordinate her teammates to counter the clone, resulting in them successfully putting up a defense against it.

Spells:
Hypnosis magic (精神操作魔法, Seishin sōsa mahō): Edel's expertise is in hypnosis magic, and she can forcefully manipulate the actions of those she has within her sight by giving verbal commands. However, this magic does not work on those without minds, such as the clones created by the Spiegel. First-class mage Lernen considers Edel to be an expert at hynopsis magic, with her knowledge in the field surpassing even the current first-class mages.
Mana-driven telekinesis: During her team's battle against Sense's Spiegel clone, Edel is able to levitate the debris consisting of large boulders and huge slabs of rock. Edel can then hurl these projectiles by clapping both of her hands together in the direction of the target.
Memory transference spell (記憶の譲渡魔法, Kioku no jōto mahō): Edel can read humans' memories, as shown when Edel reads the memory of the former servant of Glück's family, who witnessed the transference of the Stone Bracelet of Servitude. She can also read the memories of demons, a feat that is extremely difficult and painful due to the differences between humans' and demons' minds. Frieren also notes that Edel is an "incredible hypnosis-magic user" for reading Macht's memories, and Frieren again praises Edel after being told by Denken that Edel had obtained a hundred years worth of memories with a single touch. Edel is also able to transfer memories from herself to another or vice versa.
Magic restoration: For items embedded with hynopsis magic, Edel is capable of analyzing and restoring them if they are malfunctioning. She exhibits this ability with the Stone Bracelet of Servitude placed on Macht, which she is able to analyze even from a distance.

Trivia:
"Edel" means "noble" (of high value or finest quality) in German.
Edel ranked the following in the official popularity polls: 26th in the first popularity contest. 44th in the second popularity contest, where multiple votes per character were counted. In this same contest, Edel ranked 28th when counting only unique votes (one vote per character per person).